{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Step into figurative painter Willa Wasserman\'92s light filled rave of larger than life nudes featuring crushes, cool girls, t4t cruising, hot older brothers, & the sound of the ocean crashing in the near distance while you cum.\
Distorting the limits of ocular and lens based perception, Wasserman renders, or rather unravels, the constraint of single point perspective, of any sort of fixed gender as each brushstroke\uc0\u8232 instigates countless sex changes to build bodies in motion.\
Capturing the feeling\'97eros\'97of live performance, Wasserman paints during live sittings inviting catalogs of gesture, of light & reflection on the ever shifting, ever stunning, ever desirous, trans body. Grinding against the dangers of panoptic visibility, there is a figurative revelry and\uc0\u8232 rallentando to Wasserman\'92s work, where, bathed in light, relaxation and falling asleep in a lover\'92s arms become possible.\
Wasserman\'92s materials and techniques mirror, both literally and symbolically, the fluidity of\uc0\u8232 transition. Her oil paintings on linen incorporate silverpoint, a historical technique of scoring or burnishing specially prepared surfaces with a silver stylus or wire. Silverpoint\'92s fine, indelible traces slowly change color over dozens of years (patina) from gray to warm umber as the silver oxidizes in the presence of atmospheric moisture. Oxidative processes represent an electronic transition on the metal\'92s surface, reminding the viewer of the electricity between lovers and in t4t cruising spaces. Several larger works are painted with oil on polished brass and\u8232 silvered copper whose glamorous metal shine, under layers of wax and lacquer, reflects and absorbs varying levels of light depending on how the viewer is oriented, refusing the imposition of figurative singularity. Self portrait in a convex mirror and Still life with barn splinters are works whose image was reflected with a convex security mirror throughout the painting process to distort depth\'92s dimensions onto brass and linen\'96as in gay crime\'96evading capture.\
Originally from Indiana, Wasserman has been living and working in New York since 2008\'96aside from a few LA years. The spark of her painting practice began with a crush on the cool older girl, Whitney, in high-school, who became her instrumental painting mentor. The convex oil on copper painting, Lilacs (for Whitney) simultaneously serves as Wasserman\'92s reckoning with her mentor\'92s recent passing and homage to the importance of queer mentorship.\
Through mirroring, reflection and t4t desire, Willa Wasserman\'92s TS CLEF insists on the elasticity of transfiguration and ultimately, how the process of relation is deeply transformative.\
For his exhibition at Nir Altman, Curtis Talwst Santiago is presenting a new suite of paint- ings and a series of objects and beats which draw upon the history, traditions, and visual manifestations of Trinidadian Carnival, an art form which has evolved from a European tra- dition into a multifarious and complex medium of communication between the different\
ethnic groups of the island and a snapshot of the global postcolonial condition.\
Amid the throng of bodies that moves exuberantly across the canvases in clouds of confet- ti, the viewer can recognize some of the figures common to the specifically Trinidadian genre of carnival. Devils and Imps adorned with blue costume elements wreak havoc among the crowds and evoke the politically charged underbelly of the tradition, which harnessed horror and the infernal as disruptive forces capable of reprogramming, if only for a few days, unjust systems of value that had been installed between the different racial groups of the island prior to emancipation of the enslaved African population in 1834. In- deed, other figures resemble stereotypical European males and assert an ambiguous presence that can be read as the oppressor when viewed through the lens of the complex history of interracial power structures on the island. Yet, viewed through that very same lens, they could also quite simply be revered ancestors. Or are they instead costumed rev- elers of the present, poking fun at these ghosts of the past, living with them and through them as a euphoric transtemporal collective body momentarily liberated from the residual power of a history that sticks fast to today\'92s social norms?\
Within these raucous, shimmering configurations of the archetypal and the anonymous, one figure ruptures the scene with a presence that sits awkwardly beyond these two cate- gories. Marked by an androgyny and agelessness that defies categorization, their black skin breaks through from beneath a white mask or make-up, their face framed by a shock of bright orange hair and a peach-blushed body studded with multicolored polka dots. A tragic club-kid clown dragged up in whiteface for the party, they further nod to the Trinidadian art of playing mas\'92. A shortened form of the word mask or masquerade, play- ing mas\'92 refers to the process whereby revelers transform themselves into fantastic beings, or characters\'96such as the notorious, quick-talking Midnight Robber, dressed in black with his extravagant tasseled hat\'96and whereby, historically, Black revelers would paint them- selves white to topple vertiginous power imbalances, or paint themselves black to mock the Whites who had done the same in multilayered acts of resistance and affirmation.\
As carnival flattens the planes of history and the asymmetry of colonial earth into a pulsing vibrant matter of the immediate present, and as this matter shifts shape and seeks form in figures that restlessly break out of lines drawn by the patterns and paradigms of a script\
1 Ruth West, 
\f1\i The Robber in the Trinidad Carnival
\f0\i0 , Carribean Quarterly; Dec, 1990; 36, 3. P. 42.\
written too long ago, one character remains out of place. Too much, anachronous, and yet still here. They move between the beats, punching out blue syncopes with displaced and misplaced steps as they flicker at the interface of multiple worlds. While it was the specta- cle of masquerade which allowed entry into public life, it appears that hypervisibility now begets exclusion. In the thick of things, but completely out of it. Invited, but not involved. Perhaps the celebration of self-enactment can reflect back the weight of another gaze. Perhaps the jubilant affirmation of mark-making can chart new worlds of recurring momen- tary ecstasy against an ever-shifting yet irrevocably catastrophic ground. JOYvastated.\
LC Queisser is pleased to present \'91An Ocean Standing\'92, an exhibition featuring works from\
Ketuta Alexi-Meskhishvili, Kenneth Bergfeld, Bekhbaatar Enkhtur, Nina Kintsurashvili and\
Anna Zem\'e1nkov\'e1.\
In his essay on Clarice Lispector\'92s work, philosopher Michael Marder writes, \'93the\
implicit mediator between [Lispector] and this world is time: the time of the world and\
of one\'92s own life expressed through parts of plants and through the milestones of\
germination, maturation, or decay.\'94 Lispector\'92s lingering attention to the elusive\
instant is described as synchronous with the slow and cyclical intervals of vegetal time.\
The works presented in An Ocean Standing investigate this seemingly paradoxical timescale\
that is both slowed down and intensified, prolonged and charged, organic and synthetic.\
In histories of performance, strategies of slowing down or stalling activity have been\
used to call attention to the time of the performance itself. While the artists featured\
here work with sculpture, painting, drawing and photography, they each address their\
chosen medium\'92s relationship to time through similar methods, bringing process and the\
timescale of making artwork into the room along the way.\
\'97\
Ketuta Alexi-Meskhishvili\'92s series Quarantine Flowers emerged from the artist\'92s\
photographic ritual during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. As she writes in her\
statement on the work; \'93Very cleverly, or maybe romantically, Germany listed florists as\
essential to life and so they stayed open. Flowers acquired tremendous allure and\
symbolism in that anxious time. The sheer stubbornness of their beauty in the face of\
despair hinted at restorative qualities of nature and so gave one hope.\'94\
In Alexi-Meskhishvili\'92s photographs, the cut flowers become both symbols of hope through\
the \'93stubborn beauty\'94 of their form, as well as ambassadors from the outside world during\
a period of interior isolation.\
Kenneth Bergfeld\'92s paintings depict various figures from the shoulders up, situated in\
front of ambiguous, vibrant backgrounds. The figures and their settings bear traces of a\
digital composite logic, as if certain details were cut, pasted and smoothed into place\
algorithmically. The artist\'92s perpetual return to these enigmatic avatars suggests an\
imaginary space, dense with endless combinatory revisions of an unstable yet commanding\
self.\
Made from combinations of organic materials, such as straw and clay, and manufactured\
materials like wire, coins, and pencils, Berkhbaatar Enkhtur\'92s sculptures often take the\
form of animals. The wolves shown here aren\'92t based on observation of real wolves but\
rather are brought together through remembered, half-dissolved fragments of the\
animal. These memories are rooted in the artist\'92s childhood in Mongolia, where the\
symbolic meaning of specific animals is heavily shaped through Shamanism. Enkhtur leaves\
traces of his handwork on the surfaces of his materials, keeping his artistic labor\
visible in the final sculpture.\
Nina Kintsurashvili\'92s paintings begin from her ongoing research into heritage sites and\
colonial history in Georgia. She travels to archaeological locations, cave monasteries\
and Soviet archives, collecting images that she then brings to the studio to study and\
sit with. The collected ancient architectural forms, marked from centuries of historical\
encounter, are abstracted and layered in her paintings\'97the specific references left\
behind, giving way to undulating, lively shape and color.\
Anna Zem\'e1nkov\'e1 (Czech, 1908-1986) was a prolific, self-taught painter whose practice was\
almost exclusively focused on flowers and ornamentation. Having grown up in Moravia\'92s\
Han\'e1 region, Zem\'e1nkov\'e1 was heavily influenced by the folk clothing that was common there.\
Many of her paintings and drawings of flowers contain sections of ornate patterns\
reminiscent of these embroidered costumes. At times, the artist would even take a needle\
and thread to her artworks, overlaying her pastel and watercolor surfaces with\
embroidery. Zem\'e1nkov\'e1\'92s works have a strange beauty\'97the combination of decorative pattern\
and floral form creates an otherworldliness that feels both lively and artificial,\
animated and still.\
\
If you have said A, you might as well say A again. A as in Anna. A as in Ann Cathrin. A as in \'93Att ang\'f6ra en brygga\'94. The Swedish flm \'96 \'93Docking the Boat\'94 that is, for those that are in need of an English translation of the title \'96 starts with a simple message: \'93Help!\'94. This message in a bottle has drifted across the archipelago before fnally fnding its way to the harbour of Stockholm and fnding somebody that understands: that the protagonists of the flm we are about to watch are in dire need of help!\
If you have said A, you might be tempted to say B to make a sense of progress. 1 hours and 41 futile minutes spent on trying to do exactly what the title suggests: \'93Docking the boat\'94. The crayfsh are ready on the island. The bottles of schnapps are on the boat. The strategies to get ashore are many, but none of them are successful. \'93Att ang\'f6ra en brygga\'94 is a story of how two halves capable of making up a complete perfection being kept in a permanent state of incompletion and imperfection. A crayfsh party is not that much of a party without schnapps. And a party with neither crayfsh nor friends might have you downing the schnapps all by yourself, scribbling the words \'93Help!\'94, before slipping the note into the bottle, corking it and tossing it into the ocean.\
If you have said A and B, you might as well say ABBA. The message in a bottle that keeps on reappearing in Anna\uc0\u32 \u769 s paintings is possibly doing the same: searching for the other half to make it whole. The blond soprano that is contrasting and complimenting the dark mezzo-soprano. The paintings render the bottles bobbing up and down. Maybe it is the buoyancy of hope. Maybe it is the very energy and urgency with which these bottles were thrown into the blue ocean. The same blue as the silkscreen prints by Ann Cathrin. They run like ropes from top to bottom, like a prison break. Thus one half of the exhibition is being pulled by gravity and the other half is foating at sea.\
If you have said A and B, you might as well say ACAB. All Captains Are Bewildered. Where is the wind coming from? What are all these ropes on the sailboat actually for? Why are we doing this exhibition (or why this dirty pink colour on the wall)? Some things we know and other things we don\'92t know. The two artists have known each other since strolling the corridors of St\'e4delschule in Frankfurt am Main. What such an exhibition could be was not sure, is not sure and will remain unsure until we get sorted out what is really related and what is wholly unrelated. Then again, the strength of a rope is not dependent on each fbre running the entire length of the rope, but rather that there are enough fbres that are overlapping in any given place. Toss the rope to the friend that is standing on the dock, and slowly pull the boat ashore.\
Embajada presents a solo exhibition by Latvian artist, Elza Sile entitled\
Sile\'92s experimental practice confronts the boundaries of painting, creating an interwoven\
vocabulary of psycho-spatial typologies.\
consists of work made over the course of a month living and working in San Juan. Utilizing\
Delicate web-like skeleton structures made with plaster act as canvas for her textured abstractions using plastic, gelatin,\
and wire. Inspired by her environment such as architectural design or shadow patterns, Sile builds up surfaces to reveal sculptural compositions with finely detailed motifs.\

\f1\i Structures distilled from local environment grow their flesh with soft and scattered seaweed-like painting materiality. Jokes on establishment and commentaries on grim toned issues play out as each of the singular paintings mutates into a set of ideas. Riddles conceived by overlapping sectors of connotations form miniature architectural models within which to get lost chasing one's own perceptual habits
\f0\i0 .\
Duarte Sequeira is pleased to present 
\f1\i Cry me a River
\f0\i0 , the first solo exhibition of\
London-based artist Lily Kemp in Seoul.\
Inspired by the mythology and writing surrounding mermaids, Lily Kemp delves\
into the various depictions of mermaids from many different cultures. These\
water figures can be found in numerous texts from many different cultures.\
More specifically, looking at Chinese tales, they are said to be outstanding\
craftswomen, good at weaving dragon silk/yarn into thin light silk that remains\
tough and can enter the water without getting wet.\
And when they cry, they cry tears of pearls.\
With an interest in narratives touching on the fluidity of gender and identities, Kemp\'92s paintings explore ideas around change and states of transition, femininity and more recently, intimacy, memory and sense of belonging. Drawing from a range of visual references and written sources, through the process of collage she interweaves figures and images from popular culture alongside found images of landscapes and her own photographs.\
Kristina Kite Gallery presents 
\f1\i Cessna
\f0\i0 , an exhibition of new paintings and wallpaper by Los Angeles-based artist Tara Walters.\
The exhibition takes it\'92s name from Walters\'92 beloved horse, Cessna, who passed away in 2022. Cessna is depicted in several paintings at various stages of her life \'97 as a young foal; in her prime; and as a mare surrounded by her offspring. The meadows, flowers and trees that she loved and lived amongst feature prominently in landscapes both real and imagined and also serve as the inspiration for a newly conceived wallpaper. Referencing historic wallpaper designs of the Victorian era and the Arts and Crafts Movement as well as artists such as Walter Crane, Charles Burchfield, and William Morris, a pattern of tiny horses jumping in and out of their corrals is surrounded by an endless field dotted with irises, clovers, and poppies.\
Two large-scale vertical landscape paintings hang on the wallpaper in which Walters\'92 motifs of balloons, butterflies, and rainbows converge with references to East Asian scroll paintings, European castles and 18th century astronomical illustrations. The paintings\'92 titles as well as their imagery also reference the Flammarion engraving; an unattributed illustration which first appeared in French astronomer Camille Flammarion\'92s 
\f1\i L\'92atmosph\'e8re: m\'e9t\'e9rologie populaire 
\f0\i0 published in 1888.\
Using pure pigments and water sourced from the Pacific Ocean, Walters\'92 large-scale canvases are built up from numerous layers of water and paint. As the first layers of pigment and water are applied, the canvases are left to dry face down on the studio floor. The resulting pools and stains serve as the starting points for the compositions in a collaboration with chance and circumstance. The accumulation of pigment and water rarely extends to the edges of the canvases and the resulting images appear like visions floating within the sharply defined edges of the stretchers. As the ocean water dries, the delicate salt crystals that remain add subtle areas of shimmer.\
A recording of Claude Debussy\'92s 
\f1\i Clair de Lune, 
\f0\i0 performed by the composer himself, plays intermittently in the space. Inspired by Paul Verlaine\'92s poem of the same name, the romantic and melancholy tune transforms the installation into a life-sized keepsake box or musical jewelry box. A place of fantasy, memory, history and invention that aspires to Verlaine\'92s lyrical mood \'97\
The dreamy moonlight of a Watteau painting, That silences the birds, and where one sees The sobbing fountains all like figures fainting,\
Tall, slim, amid the statues and the trees.*\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 LOS ANGELES 
\f0\b0 - 
\f1\i Tactics of Erasure and Rewriting Histories 
\f0\i0 is a juried exhibition that highlights diverse artworks documenting acts of reclamation and removal as a process of making history. The five artists selected \'96 Fafnir Adamites, Andre Keichian, Alberto Lule, Miller Robinson, and Ryat Yezbick \'96 make use of archival and forensic materials, found objects, and casting to investigate how state-sanctioned censorships create a system of oppression that impacts their sense of identity. What role does erasure play in informing one's place in history? What other\
forms of representation can capture the fluidity of marginalized identities
\f2\b , 
\f0\b0 the pains of inherited traumas, and the unstable truth of history?\
One artistic strategy employed by some artists is the subversion of systems of categorization and obfuscation of truth in data collection, which reveals the perpetuation of violence on different levels of society. In the absence of material evidence and records from official narratives, other exhibition artists have created their own archives from personal artifacts and used items. These gaps in official narratives give space for the artists\'92 speculative interpretations that reconcile with past and present traumas, while rewriting the future towards more tender, hopeful outcomes.\
Alberto Lule and Ryat Yezbick use the language of power to address the inherent violence in systems that seeks to divide, categorize, and criminalize by instilling fear and centering on difference. Lule examines control and manipulation of bodies in the US carceral system and questions who is granted authority over the bodies of others. He creates self-portraits following systems of identification and tools used by the police on incarcerated people. Reminiscent of the Bertillon system, which was developed in the 19th century to classify \'93the criminal\'92s\'94 physiology by French policeman Alphonse Bertillon, Lule\'92s piece, 
\f1\i Am I Truly Free? 
\f0\i0 (2022), is a triptych composed of different identifiers based on the artist\'92s prison issued identification card. 
\f1\i Am I Truly Free? (a)
\f0\i0 , on view in the exhibition, is a collage on plexiglass that multiplies the copy of Lule\'92s prison-issued identification card, sectioning the artist\'92s face to his eyes, alternating them with graphs and excerpts on eugenics and reductive terms pertaining to criminal physiology. His 
\f1\i Investigation 
\f0\i0 (2019 -) series abstracts the artist\'92s body to traces of positions in which the police had placed him during his arrest. The positions are revealed through forensic ink blurring, rather than codifying, the body it seeks to identify.\
Ryat Yezbick creates a blurry line between enunciator and enunciated, victim and perpetrator in their video installation
\f1\i , growth lies, pack of truth 
\f0\i0 (2022)
\f1\i . 
\f0\i0 News footage of the University of Texas tower shooting in 1966 has been edited to give space for an alternative universe in which vulnerable masculinity may alter the course of the future. This film, the first in a series from Yezbick\'92s growing archive of news coverage of mass shootings in the United States, presents a speculative narrative about a mysterious creature that spreads like a virus causing its hosts to go into a temporary state of physiological confusion. Housed in a tombstone, the film is a haunting reminder of the psychological trappings of fear and the objectification of the Other. The artist\'92s background as a cultural anthropologist informs their practice as they engage with the impact of digital surveillance technology on the collective American psyche and sense of co- responsibility.\
In contrast to the abundance of information in Lule\'92s and Yezbick\'92s works, Andre Keichian, Miller Robinson, and Fafnir Adamites seek to give shape to histories that have been erased. Andre Keichian\'92s 
\f1\i Salt in the I 
\f0\i0 (2019), is a lyrical mapping of his family\'92s diasporic journey from the war-ravaged Middle East to France, Argentina, and the United States through the manipulation of his family photo album. Using salt and water to develop the negatives and bend wood for the frames, the different elements of the work collapse topographies of ocean,\
land, and temporalities. The artist stretches the possibility of the archive to blend truth and fiction and insert the narrative of his Armenian-born, Argentinian grandfather who marks the beginning of his family\'92s migration as a stand-in ancestral queer. The act of speculation also comes from the influence of the Armenian Genocide on the artist\'92s family\'92s history of migration, the impact of which is still not fully recognized by the Turkish government. The artist asks, \'93
\f1\i If this happening can exist without the privilege of becoming official history, then what new alternative possibilities may emerge within modes of art and narrative within this gap?
\f0\i0 \'94\
The archive, in Miller Robinson\'92s work, is a mode of operation that serves to defy both the system of linear time and Eurocentricity and to offer an understanding of how lineage can be formed outside of those constraints. Conceived as a site-specific intervention, the artist introduces elements of past and present works \'96 ranging from a drawing on latex rubber that has been rubbed until it reflects like salmon skin to hand-carved fossils of transitional species \'96 cyclically, stretching between cosmic, geological, and human time. In particular, the collection of objects in 
\f1\i k\'edit'\'e1namahach (Little Grandma) 
\f0\i0 pays tribute to histories of colonization, the attempted erasure and forced assimilation of Indigenous peoples, and the delicate balance between the artist\'92s own Karuk/Yurok and white heritages.\
The discreet objects of Fafnir Adamites give voice to the invisible labor of women and hidden familial stories. The 25-foot-long banner of woven used cotton T-shirts, entitled 
\f1\i A Record of Obscured Meaning 
\f0\i0 (2018), is a testimony to the repetitive process of weaving discarded artifacts. The artist compares the gesture to the Sisyphean task of gathering and safekeeping that which falls out of our grasp. Materials and action embody the trauma, memory, and legacy of emotional turmoil inherited from past generations. The multiple hydrostone castings of 
\f1\i The Presence of Absence 
\f0\i0 (2019) serve as counter-monuments for people, places, and memories that are no longer present. For Adamites, the refusal to name and categorize traumatic events is different from their erasure; one can acknowledge the brutality of an event and move forward by giving breath to the irrepresentability of the experience.\

\f2\b (Santa Barbara, CA)
\f0\b0 \'97The Art, Design & Architecture Museum at UC Santa Barbara presents the first solo museum exhibition of LA-based artist 
\f2\b Ishi Glinsky 
\f0\b0 (b. 1982, Tucson, Arizona \'96 Tohono O\'92odham). An early career survey covering work made over the past decade, the exhibition features 25 of Glinsky\'92s works, including painting, works on paper, and mixed-media sculpture. Glinsky\'92s art draws from the traditions of the Tohono O\'92odham Nation as well as those of various North American Native arts, such as jewelry making, basketry, and weaving, among others, in order to honor Native Americans\'92 place in history and art movements. Organized by the Art, Design & Architecture Museum at UCSB, the exhibition is on view from September 1, 2022 through January 22, 2023.\
\'93The work of Ishi Glinsky offers viewers a larger-than-life invitation to engage with the Native arts of North America and learn about the rich cultural history and present-day challenges facing Indigenous peoples. Utilizing monumental scale and found materials, his work honors the resourcefulness, beauty, and importance of these Native art forms while simultaneously asserting their place within Contemporary Art. The AD&A Museum is thrilled to be organizing Ishi\'92s first solo museum exhibition, and hope it opens his practice up to new audiences and the institutional recognition it deserves,\'94 said AD&A Museum Director Gabriel Ritter.\
For the Tohono O\'92odham, \'93The Man in the Maze\'94 represents the people\'92s emergence upon earth, but more broadly also reflects paths taken throughout life and beyond. With the title 
\f3\i\b Upon a Jagged Maze
\f1\b0 , 
\f0\i0 artist Ishi Glinsky reflects on his personal journey through his evolving artistic practice. Glinsky approaches moments in history, art history, and the presentation of physical objects as endeavors of engagement and care that comprise his path. His journey of understanding is also embedded in the experience of this exhibition. As Glinsky explains, \'93The viewer can actively track twists and turns I've taken in mediums and processes thus far, intended to honor indigenous knowledge in new spaces and viewed in new ways. Throughout 
\f1\i Upon a Jagged Maze
\f0\i0 , there are moments meant to open the door for\
further discussion or understanding.\'94 This early career survey of Glinsky\'92s art will present an overview of his artistic output thus far, including work from 2009 to the present.\
Ishi Glinksy was born in Tucson, AZ in 1982, but has resided and worked in Los Angeles, CA for the past sixteen years. As a sculptor, painter, and installation artist, Glinsky focuses on aspects of resourcefulness, permanence and continuity, based upon his material compositions. Materiality and intertribal cultural celebrations are central to this focus, while Glinsky explores a range of historical pieces, both major events and ephemera, across Native North America. A fusion of the past with contemporary art, Glinsky is a mostly self-taught artist who observes both the techniques of his people of the Tohono O\'92odham Nation, as well as the traditions of other Native nations in a celebration of interconnectivity and survival of those practices. Through techniques based in scale and verisimilitude, Glinsky acknowledges craft traditions as fine art forms.\
(MIAMI, FL \'97 January 30, 2023) \'97 
\f2\b Nina Johnson 
\f0\b0 is pleased to present 
\f3\i\b Distant Waters
\f0\i0\b0 , a solo exhibition featuring all new works by artist 
\f2\b Nicole Wittenberg
\f0\b0 . Opening 
\f2\b February 24th 
\f0\b0 in the 
\f2\b Main Gallery
\f0\b0 , the exhibition presents various bodies of water that the artist has visited and explored through a series of drawn and painted studies. 
\f1\i Distant Waters 
\f0\i0 is the first exhibition by Wittenberg to focus solely on this subject matter, and will coincide with a forthcoming permanent public installation by Wittenberg in Miami, which demonstrates the artist\'92s fluid relationship to scale in her works, a scale which ranges from notebook size to sizable canvases.\
Water has been a significant theme for Wittenberg, and for the past six years, the artist has created pastel drawings of ponds, oceans, and seas captured at various points and times throughout the day. For 
\f1\i Distant Waters
\f0\i0 , Wittenberg transforms the pastels into large-scale oil paintings\'97a technical and artistic advancement for the artist\'97allowing for a visual translation of the water\'92s weight, movement, and transparency.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 Distant Waters 
\f0\i0 features new works inspired by the Aegean Sea, the Caribbean Sea, the Andaman Sea, and the Pacific Ocean. Based on personal studies Wittenberg drew while on boats and beaches, the brushstrokes of the plein air paintings have a vastness and fluidity that imitates the rhythm and currents of\
the sea. Mirroring the infinite hues and tones distinguishable by sunrise and sunset, each painting is its own experience for both the artist and the viewer.\
\'93It\'92s my hope that in these paintings I\'92ve been able to express the vastness and freedom that comes from the experience of seeing the horizon of the sky as it meets the sea. I found that all over the world this relationship with the horizon is unique to each time and place, and carries with it all of the significance and intensity from mythology, as a through line to the wonderment I can recall from my earliest childhood memories of sunsets over the Pacific Ocean,\'94 said 
\f2\b Nicole Wittenberg
\f0\b0 . \'93Working with Nina Johnson over the past eight years has been an amazing opportunity. In this collaboration for the mural project and reflected in these paintings she has continued to encourage me to develop this complicated theme of the water in painting.\'94\
In Dineo Seshee Bopape\'92s haunting installations and videos, the history of her native South Africa prompts reflections on memory and hegemony over land and bodies in relation to the lived experiences of African people (and also a beauty). Her work is informed by her quest for a visual, acoustic, and material language that evokes an autochthonous aesthetic. It articulates (particularly) the African diaspora\'92s peoples\'92 resilience and healing as well as their sustained energies of resistance to and emancipation from and traversing \'91through\'92 the violence of the white supremacist capitalist patriarchal matrix. Bopape makes art out of carefully selected everyday materials such as soil, clay, fabric, plants, containers, paint and digital media. Their material and symbolic properties often appear in conversation with ideas about politics, aesthetics, the metaphysics of self/thing/spirit and relationality , sovereignty, presence, home, land and waters, language, song, and memory ...\
At the Secession, Dineo Seshee Bopape has developed a new site-responsive installation that transports visitors with its intense physicality. The exhibition space is kissed with pink light and filled with the buzzing of honeybees. Cupolas and knee-high walls made of pressed clay speak the language of that ephemeral thing brought forth and housed through form via the architecture of open-air enclosures/courtyards in some traditional African villages (reception area, courtyard, court, outdoor prayer enclosures). These create a flowing spatial spiral movement and structure between inside and outside, to the work\'92s center, and offer an entrance ... a portal. Circular depressions in the floor at one of the centers of the ensembles mirror a cosmic constellation and form linkages to earlier generations of works by Bopape. Like the clay bowls and vessels they act as containers, receptacles, orifices or invocation instruments and monuments to invoke amongst others, ideas of the feminine and ... satellites (of home: home ground/ home soil).\
Bopape\'92s constellation of elements is fraught with social, political and symbolic signification. Among the different knowledges she draws on is the ancient Southern African creation story that, when rock and fire collided, water was born. The story, like much indigenous knowledge and modes of being, became besieged and suppressed during Western Imperialist colonization/colonial eras and was read to be contesting the rational/European Enlightenment project, the Modern, the \'91Christian\'92 ... Western European political identity ... Like any creation story, it is a source for identity and orientation towards the world. How does one translate this story of the\
beginning of the world to the now? Bopape\'92s approach as an artist is an intuitive journey through it, focusing less on representation but \'91relations\'92 at play. To her it presents possibilities to read and \'91revision\'92\'97dream anew events\'97in the layers between the sky and the earth ...\
In her installation, Bopape creates an interchange of experience and meanings as springboard of another rationality as well as medicine for the feminine ... The multiple connections of matter, life and spirit are sung through the exhibition title 
\f1\i Lerato le le golo (... la go hloka bo kantle) 
\f0\i0 [a big love (... that has no outside)]. The poetic line in SePedi\'97Bopape\'92s mother tongue of Southern Africa\'97refers to the relation between things\'97an unconditional love ... A feeling overflowing in the smell of rain on heat-soaked African soil ... Pula (Rain), precious in the land of her birth, is synonymous with life, fertility and wealth. In SePedi, it is often eulogized in songs as a comforting presence/witness, event (pula ya medupi). There is a sensuality of it oft referenced in coming-of-age ceremonies ... and those celebrating land and fecundity ... also in dialogue with various indigenous stories, an expression of the fertilization of the ground by the sky via rain, and often involving the serpent of creation ... something about regeneration is at play here.\
The title \'93P\'92 for Perspective\'94 is inspired by the Danish seismologist and geophysicist Inge Lehmann (1888-1993). Lehmann was unique; a passionate scientist whose work and private life merged into a singular and dedicated vision, focused on the reading and understanding of the forces of the inner Earth. Lehmann had a particular talent for examining seismographic registrations of earthquakes and movements from within the planet. Her readings were based as much on idiosyncratic intuition and personal interpretation, as they were on rational and categorical analyses. A different type of imagination was needed to challenge the status quo, and dream up a new understanding of the world.\
In 1936 Lehmann published her seminal paper, simply titled \'93P\'92\'94. The paper contained recordings of distant earthquakes with certain types of seismic waves, that travel through Earth and its core, so-called P-waves. Her readings showed anomalous characteristics in these, meaning that the waves reflected on a different and denser material structure than the liquid centre presumed to be the core of the planet. This eventually led to the groundbreaking discovery that Earth has a solid core inside a molten outer core. Essential knowledge that is now integrated in every calculation and model of our planet. \uc0\u8232 \
P\'92 for Perspective looks at shifting scientific viewpoints and new cultural attitudes in our contemporary time. A volatile era characterised by a massive and constant flow of information and knowledge sharing. In a cyclical manner, the exhibition considers how such input is initially generated, mediated, and absorbed, and how it might end up being reexamined and used anew. Through crisis and triumph, the mundane, the enlightened and the cosmic, artworks function as containers that capture and materialise the energy of a certain period or a mere fleeting moment in that time. They signify the presence of a conscious observation.\
The exhibition portrays life in motion, as images, objects and time-lapses; by means of incorporating both microscopic and macroscopic and internal and external optics, by reaching into ourselves and into the planet, and by stretching our imagination and our technology into the cosmos. As we traverse the globe and its elements, we bind our individual bodies to its physical dimensions across widely dispersed coordinates and increments of time, while a globalised network can seem to exponentially bring us closer to a common unified mind and core.\
The group exhibition 
\f1\i Crossing an empty beach to look at the ocean 
\f0\i0 is dedicated to a politics of friendship that sees itself as a counter-model to a violent and ambivalent present. Friendship here does not mean \'96 in the narrow sense \'96 being together with friends, but (following C\'e9line Condorelli and others) living with and acknowledging differences. Friendships in this sense can be maintained with living as well as deceased persons, but also with objects, texts, thoughts, contexts and environments - for example.\
In friendly interaction with them, changes of perspective, rethinking and re-acting become possible. In this sense, the exhibition gathers works by artists who propose or develop other forms of movement and a different language. They negotiate time periods of and approaches to thinking, relationships to material as well as to territories. All these aspects are linked to conflicts, power relations and contradictions, but also to possibilities.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Crypto C\'9cur\'94 is a rare collection of 25 NFTs by artist-duo Jacent minted on the occasion of the opening of their solo exhibition \'93Gl\'fccksspiel, Le jeu de l\'92amour et du hasard\'94 at sonneundsolche, D\'fcsseldorf.\uc0\u8232 The series is a 3D version of heart-shaped ceramic-paintings created by the artists between 2020\u8232 and 2022. Jacent explores the motif of intimacy that unfolds in a collection of passionate memories.\
Not clearly gendered, this digitized Kama sutra is an ode to love and tolerance. (opensea.io/jacent)\
\
Bradford states as follows regarding the exhibition \'93Night Swimmers\'94 and the painting works featured. \'93These new paintings continue my exploration of the figure in water. What interests me about night swimming is the subtle changes in light and shadow and how each situation presents its own world of color. I have included the glow of the moon in several paintings as well as the need for all of us to have a lifeguard watching over us on a high seat. Along with a moon I like to include planets as sources of eerie nocturnal bright spots. The figures are rendered in a blueish light so that their bathing suit often provides the only light. Night swimming is primordial and wavers between a peaceful calm and a generic fear of the dark. Water at night tends to appear black but I have given the water a luminosity to signal the possibility of a warm embrace. The ocean at night holds so many mysteries I am always eager to try to paint it.\'94\
Bradford has repeatedly painted motifs such as swimmers, night skies, and the ocean, taking several months or sometimes a year to complete each work, slowly developing them over time. Distinguished by a palette consisting of soft shades of pink, blue, purple, orange, and yellow, certain feelings of anacatesthesia permeate the painting space. The figures depicted in the works appear almost expressionless, yet their emotions are conveyed through gestures and facial directions, evoking the fun and joy, sorrow, loneliness, and disquiet of the ocean at night. These contrasts give rise to a unique atmosphere and element of humor, manifesting in the form of dreamlike scenes that captivate the viewer.\
While the simple color-field surfaces and atmospheric backgrounds are inspired by the abstract paintings of Mark Rothko and the work of various artists such as Forrest Bess, Milton Avery, and Philip Guston, Bradford expresses a desire to pursue her own manner of \'93representation\'94 through a free and distinct approach to produce an unparalleled oeuvre.\
Bradford describes her reasons for depicting swimming figures as follows.\
\'93Really what I love is transparency and cropping, and that\'92s a good reason to do swimmers. People want me to say that swimming is a metaphor or that I was on the swimming team. But I am speaking as someone who is a painter \'96 I make paintings. So my main motivation is to create a transparent look in a painting: that has always been fun for me. In terms of the cropping, I love to create an image where the water and the body are interacting. So what I\'92m trying to do is to get the human body to be enfolded in the paint, and therefore in the water.\'94\
She has also commented on the themes for her previous works.\uc0\u8232 \'93I feel that in this moment in the art world, people are responding to social and political issues. ... but I\'92m really emphasizing a universality. I feel that\'92s important, that I\'92m exploring who we are, how we fit in, how we fit in together visually, how we all stand next to each other, and there are quite a lot of options for how to look and be with one another. I\'92m interested in the community, and I love the community that you and I are in, which is full of really odd, different kinds of people.\'94(Loney Abrams\'93\'91I\'92m not going to fool around\'92: An Interview with Painter Katherine Bradford.\'94Artspace July 12, 2019)\
\'93Circle of the Bee\'94 is a two-part exhibition taking place between Los Angeles and Tokyo during the month of July and August 2022. On both sides of the Pacific Ocean, I decided to exhibit new oil paintings from the same-named series, a site-specific sculpture, and a video collage. Originally planned as a movie script, the series became an examination of the concept of contamination through the medium of painting, which simultaneously carries the potential of expression and illustration. Both exhibitions contain an excerpt from a larger, cohesive narrative.\
The semi-autobiographic element of the narrative is based on the character of a young boy who develops frightening thoughts about the waters of his hometown after hearing of a potential contaminant. His fear soon leads to nightmares, and illusions of his own body, fusing concepts of genetic mutation and magical transformation. A reoccurring motif in my work is the prehistoric and mythologic structure of a fountain, a symbol of vitality, and purity, as well as the unknown and hidden, which forms the architectural and philosophic center of this story.\
The Video Collage \'84Fear Engine 2.0.1.1\'93 was assembled shortly before the exhibition on a small island in the Pacific Northwest. Since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011, the Pacific Ocean formed another \'93fountain\'94 in my mind. Invisible streams of radioactive matter traveling through water and air, slowly changing the biosphere, as well as the physical and mental conditions of the organisms that populate it, opened the space for new ghostly appearances of myself. The realization of this exhibition draws parallels to contamination itself, where matter and thought accumulate and layer into an unknown outcome.\
When Unica Z\'fcrn wrote 
\f1\i Dark Spring
\f0\i0 , the vision of a female body was constructed via multiple contradictory positions: the author writes in the third person about her suicide which later materialized IRL \'97 the so called 
\f1\i Real Life 
\f0\i0 \'97 applying an uncannily similar 
\f1\i modus-operandi. 
\f0\i0 Questioning the inception of this mirroring would lead us to the Heideggerian loop about the origin of the work of art, after all, there is a lot of play (Spiel) in a mirror (Spiegel), in this particular case, a Lil mirror (Spieglein), as suggested by the poetically archaic german suffix \'93lein\'94 generally used for cute, harmless, often feminine things.\

\f1\i Spieglein, Spieglein 
\f0\i0 (mirror, mirror) thematizes the relationship between mystification and marginalization of the female as a central theme. Through her work, the artist offers a gaze through a looking glass that does not attempt to demystify but rather to convert supposed weaknesses into elated pride. Both the choice of material and the imagery used for 
\f1\i Spieglein, Spieglein 
\f0\i0 is directing the viewer to stereotypical (gender-specific) associations that serve to bring vulnerability and strength into an analogy.\
The strands of crystal beads, commonly used for wedding decoration, act as seductive veils that disperse the light into colors and give the exhibition space a ceremonial spirit. The fact that they were bought on a Chinese website (Alibaba), after being unsuccessfully researched locally, is a symptom of the ever growing reliance on supply-chains and the continuous mirroring of Western industrial models to countries where (often female) labor-force is abundant and cheap. The type of objects sold in these internet platforms are tightly related with the domestic sphere, a space frequently associated with feminine immanence: clothes, house-hold appliances, kitchenware, decorative objects and fake designer bags.\
Cultural reorientation often leads to the development of an ideology or demonology directed against perceived menaces such as rival movements and deviant groups, and generally results in scapegoating and persecution. Silvia Federici argues in her book Caliban and the Witch that the witchhunt was a significant step towards pushing women to the edge of society and thus enabling the exploitation of their work force by a soon-to-come capitalist system. Historically, the female (worker) has been excluded of the sphere of socially recognized work and has instead been forced to carry out labour of the lowest status with little or no payment (i.e. textile industry, prostitution, domestic work..marriage). Still today the idea of the female is being denounced as irrational, esoteric, emotional, hysteric and so forth \'96 these disparaging preconceptions have the consequence that people who claim these attributes for themselves are being discredited. In an eerie way, 
\f1\i Spieglein, Spieglein, 
\f0\i0 fosters a play with the possibilities of a "safe space", a sort of mirror universe in which the holy whore or witch is being celebrated rather than condemned.\
Framed by kaleidoscopic textile works that juxtapose fabrics with prints of animal skins (e.g. snakes) and those for wedding ceremonies, the portholes at the center of the cloths display collages of analogue photographs of obscure shop window scenes overlaid upon natural motifs that evoke dreamlike sequences - fragmented and blurred. The clothes are a puzzling blend of quasi-religious symbolism and soviet suprematism. Sewed by the artist herself in her studio located in the north of Portugal, a region\
with a strong historical connection to the textile industry, the act of sewing seems to survive scarcely as local DIYism, while the portuguese industry is mostly displaced towards the far-east.\
Accross the globe, textile work, alongside prostitution, have been the two crafts most notoriously associated with women, so the act of making a set of works embeding references to these as contemporary art objects feels like a sardonic play with the Male Genius, a category that has allegedly excluded women from the high ranks of intelectual and creative labor for centuries and dominated most of art history, peaking at the modernist model, now being contested 
\f1\i ad-nauseum 
\f0\i0 by a fervent woke-culture.\
The collages have an epic fairy-tale feel to them, a surrealist blend that feels organic to the point of suspending disbelief. The circular portlights are highly evocative of the windows from the Solaris station depicted in Tarkovsky\'92s film, the planet where all incoming astronauts were haunted by the embodied mirrors of their memory, defied by the incomprehensibility of the Planet\'92s only living organism, a dense gel-like Ocean whose purpose and ontology remained unknown, completely impenetrable, despite all attempts at scientific research by the on-board scientists. In the Snow White fairy-tale, the Prince kisses a comatose woman to save her from death, but in Solaris the exact opposite happens: it is Hari, a dead woman, that kisses a living Man to save him from the so-called 
\f1\i Real Life. 
\f0\i0 Trapped in the mirror of the mind, the nuclear power over the Ocean sets them free. But when given the choice to go back to Earth, Chris chooses to stay, arguing that \'93
\f1\i all simple and human truths have its mysteries. They are the essence of life. The mysteries of Happiness, of Death and of Love\'94
\f0\i0 .\
On September 1, 2022, Who Speaks for the Oceans? opens at Mishkin Gallery, Baruch College, City University of New York. The exhibition proposes new and challenging ways to shift our understandings of and relationships to whales and other nonhuman animals. Through over fifteen interdisciplinary artworks in video, installation, painting, tapestry, music, performance, and more, Who Speaks for the Oceans? analyzes epistemological and historical knowledge built around what we think we know about life in the ocean through the charismatic \'93whale song.\'94\
Many historic representations of ocean life have been informed by colonial, racialized, gendered, and terra-centric conventions alongside the production of nature, which will be exposed and critiqued through the multiple perspectives of an international and intergenerational group of artists. Traversing a polyvocal marine geography, the artists in Who Speaks for the Oceans? encourage listening beyond normative patterns of consumption. They also consider how technology, assumed to be indexical and scientific, has informed imaginary and fantastical perspectives of non-terrestrial worlds. Some artists in the exhibition play with such perspectives and offer alternative future projections, while others reflect on and amplify overlooked histories.\
As we approach a crucial moment concerning\
the condition of our planet, listening to whale vocalizations and other marine creatures can bring us\
closer to understanding their needs and encouraging action towards healthier stewardship of the\
oceans.\
The first recorded whale vocalizations were publicly released in 1970 through the LP Songs of the Humpback Whale. These recordings were widely distributed through National Geographic as the largest environmental record pressing of all time. They heavily influenced artists and activists alike, while introducing human listeners to empathic perspectives of ocean life. The recording spearheaded the Save the Whales campaign, was played on the floor of Congress, and in-part, helped to ban commercial whaling in the United States. If listening to such sounds inspired monumental change in the 1970s, what can we continue to learn from this history today? Who Speaks for the Oceans? encourages revisiting our relatively new position as stewards of the planet to reimagine creative ways in which listening to one another can lead to action and bring forth equitable futures.\
Shulamit Nazarian is pleased to present 
\f1\i Valley of the Moon
\f0\i0 , a solo exhibition of paintings by Los Angeles-based Daniel Gibson. This will be the artist\'92s first solo exhibition at the gallery.\
Gibson's paintings explore a lexicon of symbols that relate to his familial past and his identity as a Mexican-American. The new works in 
\f1\i Valley of the Moon 
\f0\i0 are set between the desert and the ocean, employing references to the natural world while speaking to hardships, resilience, and freedom.\
Growing up in California, along the border with Mexico, Gibson bore witness to migrants who crossed the desert, risking their lives as they desperately sought a better future. Confronted by the harsh realities of the world at an early age, he\
turned to his imagination, often reshaping reality with fantasy. As a painter, Gibson brings to life the surreal narratives that captivated him as a child, reimagining memories and family stories from the point of view of his earliest years.\
Shifting between the genres of portraiture, landscape, and still life, Gibson's surrealistic scenes demonstrate an adoration for nature. Desert landscapes are populated with generously painted lush flowers that often take on an anthropomorphized quality. The ocean is prominently featured in many of his family stories and creates a stark contrast with the arid desert landscape of his childhood. Abundantly filled vases serve as a celebration of life, referencing the imagery of 
\f1\i ofrendas
\f0\i0 , urns, and wombs. Gibson revitalizes the world around him in painting, reverently returning to familiar symbols such as flowers, butterflies, figures, desert mountains, beaches, and seas.\
Oversized butterflies feature prominently in several works in 
\f1\i Valley of the Moon
\f0\i0 . Beyond a symbol of migration, the insects conjure a childhood memory of the artist desperately trying to understand how a person could safely make their way across the desert border with little sustenance. In the mind of a young Gibson, giant butterflies relieved these individuals from their grueling journey by carrying them safely to distant lands. Rendering this imagined scene in a painting, the artist employs a child-like imaginary, one filled with curiosity and wonder, in an effort to face a bleak reality. This youthful frame of reference also impacts the very construction of a landscape for Gibson. Many of his paintings build around a blunt horizon, succinctly dividing the Earth from the sky. Looming above is a pregnant sun, endowed with the power both to sustain life and to take it away, a brutal reality for anyone crossing this terrain.\
Giving prominence to nature, Gibson in turn depicts the man-made world diminutively, a perspective that is in stark contrast with his earliest years. He grew up in Plaster City, CA, just outside a massive gypsum factory that employed his father. This larger-than-life structure grumbled with power and spit white dust, leaving an indelible impression on the artist as a child. As seen in 
\f1\i Plaster City East
\f0\i0 , 2021, Gibson has rendered this immense structure as a miniature form obscured by the vast natural world. In equal measure, the presence of the border wall can be seen in the same painting as a structure reduced to near abstraction, quietly fading in the distance. This gesture pays homage to the natural world over the man- made and monumentalizes the natural forces that dominate us.\
Gibson is largely a self-taught artist and has developed his visual language and painting process through intuition and imagination. Under pink, purple, and near-black skies, everything\'97flowers, butterflies, figures, mountains, beaches, and seas\'97appears drenched in sunlight. Vibrant colors illustrate each canvas, illuminating his penchant for realizing a rich memory. For the artist, his works are as much autobiographical as they are collective stories that document moments of struggle and celebration that would otherwise be lost to time.\
Berlin based painter Tim Breuer\'92s works divulge as much as they withhold.\uc0\u8232 They are interstitial spaces, figures in transit, both present and on the verge of absence.\
His narratives are open, disarming, rendered with the deftest of touches. The densest of palettes reveal subdued tonalities that are at times practically aquatic.\
His influences are wide ranging - from Ad Reinhardt, Terry Winters, Vuillard, Hammershoi, Munch, to Hito Steryrl and Karl ove Knausgaard.\
The surfaces of each work is the result of layers of paint added and then scrapped back leaving traces of the initial drawing to emerge. Erasure, layering, subtraction, cancelation all imbue a sense of restlessness, of encapsulated time.\
What is depicted comes both from within and without, as if the painting is the meeting point between the forces of the interior and the exterior. They are manifestations of passage. Of groundless passage and transformation.\
High Desert Test Sites is pleased to announce HDTS 2022: The Searchers, our twelfth free- roving art event in the high desert region of Southern California. Guest curated by 
\f2\b Iwona Blazwick OBE
\f0\b0 , this event marks twenty years since the first HDTS event was organized in 2002 by founders Andrea Zittel, Lisa Anne Auerbach, Shaun Caley Regen, Andy Stillpass and John Connelly.\
HDTS 2022 emerges from a heavy felt shift in both culture-at-large and our local desert communities. It\'92s title The Searchers shines light on the \'93regenerative ruin,\'94 a concept that follows 21st century human intervention in our desert region. As a historically nomadic environment, the desert has played host to waves of different existences\'97transitory settlements, sanctuaries, and living experiments. This particular desert, at the bottom of the dense Mojave, occupies a fringe space between the western apexes of Los Angeles and Las Vegas where these experiments flourish. Its uniqueness lies in the many ungoverned moments, layered visions, and transposed uses of space that comprise a landscape full of attempted solutions to the basic question of "How to live?"\
From April 16-May 29, 2022, participating HDTS artists will place works between Pioneertown, Joshua Tree, and Wonder Valley, offering a narrative on the geometry of ruin, the entropic play of nature, and the ghosts of cultures both ancient and modern, human and non-human.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Alice Channer 
\f0\b0 continues her project of 21st Century Process Art by making visible the natural and industrial production of the seemingly pristine desert landscape. Rockpool, an 8- inch-tall, 60-foot-long salt-filled sculpture intricately curved from steel takes its h o r i z o n t a l form from satellite images of the 2010 British Petroleum Deepwater Horizon oil spill. This abstracted shape is re-entangled, given gravity and brought back to the ground. Here, it is s t r e t c h e d across the expansive California desert where sparkling salt crusts left by an ancient extinct ocean are extracted en masse, primarily for the fracking industry.\
Multi-media artist 
\f2\b Gerald Clarke
\f0\b0 , whose work draws on an indigenous cosmology of language and craft, invokes the ghosts of the many species of fish that once swam through the canyons.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 HDTS\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Installation and sonic artist 
\f2\b Kate Lee Short 
\f0\b0 centers her work on the sound of resonance. In a concrete room on the desert floor she captures the symphonies created by the desert\'92s most prodigious carver \'96 the wind.\
The Mojave Desert is the location for the largest Marine Corp base in America, where soldiers rehearse for a Middle Eastern theater of war. Filmmaker 
\f2\b Erkan \uc0\u79 \u779 zgen 
\f0\b0 has enlisted a group of veterans to transform their weapons into musical instruments.\
Photographer and sculptor 
\f2\b Jack Pierson 
\f0\b0 rescues the signs - neon, wooden, tin - that beckon to visitors from abandoned motels or derelict saloon bars. For this he sites a linguistic monument of a different kind, a giant wooden gesture for Wonder Valley, a place for those who drop off the edge of civilization.\
A multi-media artist who creates ritualistic structures that excavate suppressed histories, 
\f2\b Dineo Seshee Bopape 
\f0\b0 evokes an ancient structure with bricks baked from desert mud and symbolic plants and objects found amongst its rocks and dunes.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Dana Sherwood
\f0\b0 , renowned for her banquets for nocturnal creatures, sets up a desert feast as backdrop for a ceremonial dance that fuses the human with the equine.\
Part of Southern California\'92s architectural legacy lies in buildings whose form literally illustrates their function \'96 lunch stands in the shape of hot-dogs, coffee shops constructed as doughnuts, keyboard shaped piano bars. Sculptor 
\f2\b Paloma Varga Weisz 
\f0\b0 revives this tradition with a gigantic female figure. Sitting atop its structure, this monumental yet melancholy nude has been pierced by a tree. She emblematizes nature and its slow mutilation by humans.\
It was in the 1940s that the Californian government sought to attract settlers to the desert by offering 5-acre parcels of land to those who would build a home there. Homesteaders arrived in the hundreds, but few could survive the desert\'92s extremes. Among her series of "shy sculptures" cast from shacks and sheds in remote locations, 
\f2\b Rachel Whiteread 
\f0\b0 has created concrete casts of two abandoned cabins. She transforms them into quiet monuments to the aspirations and tenacity of their former inhabitants.\
HDTS 2022 will also include ephemeral programs at our community partner sites including the Sky Village Swap Meet in Yucca Valley and The Palms in Wonder Valley. A Joshua Tree tradition, a special Sunday Morning pancake breakfast will be held at Copper Mountain Mesa Community where all funds raised will go to supporting our ongoing community programming at the center.\
He built this home in 1972, when enclaves across the East End offered solace, reflection, inspiration and quiet for creative minds. Back then, the dunes were so high, you could only see the ocean from the second floor. There were so many horseshoe crabs, starfish, and shells across the sand. Today, there is a summer storm, and the ocean is swallowing up the beach in a slew of greys tinted with yellow foam; waves of unimaginable size slap the beachgrass.\
On the other side of this ocean, and far east into the Mediterranean basin, a different summer storm unfolds: 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate explode and rip through the heart of Beirut, Lebanon. De- struction that is relentless, unforgivable, uncompromising. A scale that defies one\'92s imagination. You can see the rust tinted smoke and clouds from miles away: it lingers, poisoning the air.\
I sit, safe, in the East End, in my father\'92s home, while I watch my mother\'92s home, my heartland, crumbles. I try to call everyone I know: \'93are you alive? Ok.\'94 Click. Next.\
called 
\f1\i Unearthing
\f0\i0 , which was originally performed in 2016 at Dixon Place in New York. What called you to use what was, at the time, a newfound material?\

\f2\b Kiyan Williams
\f0\b0 : It\'92s so nice to be able to reflect on that. When\uc0\u8232 I first conceived of 
\f1\i Unearthing
\f0\i0 , which was in 2014, it was during\uc0\u8232 a residency at EmergeNYC, and I was doing really rigorous performance-based exercises and experimenting outside of a more studio-based practice. One day this image came to me of my body in a mound of earth and I was rubbing the earth into my skin. So I dug up some dirt from a local park in downtown Manhattan and did some research and learned that it was a former African burial ground. And so through performance and working with the material, it was kind of revealing itself to me, and I felt this deep desire to have a connection with the land through earth. In a way, I think I was quite literally attempting to ground myself because I had just graduated from college and was trying to figure out a new city\'97New York\'97and I also was thinking about how dispossession and nonbelonging can inform a Black queer experience. There was also something about being in a mound of earth from a formal perspective and how creating a new form of my body, in the sense that my lower half was just a mound of earth and transcending\u8232 a human and gendered form with no recognizable legs or not necessarily having genitalia and all these things that society uses to mark and code gendered bodies. So this performance would eventually lead into my sculptural practice.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : You often cite Black feminist and queer literature as sources of both inspiration and affirmation. The title of this installation, 
\f1\i Between Starshine & Clay 
\f0\i0 (2022), takes its name from a Lucille Clifton poem, \'93won\'92t you celebrate with me.\'94 I\'92ve returned to that poem many times over the years as a source of recognition that\
so concisely and elegantly informs Black femmehood. What about this line and this poem drew you in? And do you have a writing practice that coincides with your art practice? How does language inform your work?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : I\'92ve always found poetry to be illuminating and really vital in terms of how certain poets use language to describe a process of self-emancipation and determination. I\'92m always trying to mine these different relationships to land or the natural world and how that is rooted in the process of self-creation for many Black creatives. I love the line \'93between starshine and clay\'94 because it\'92s about the earth and light as the materials used\
to forge a new self. As a sculptor and as someone who works three-dimensionally, I am invested in earth and light and all\uc0\u8232 the materials that I\'92m assembling in order to create a new kind of cosmology or a way to articulate my own self-determination, and this desire also stems from a larger emancipatory project that Black feminist/queer cultural production is engaged in. I do have a writing practice, and it often goes hand in hand with art making. When I\'92m in the studio and working with the earth and touching it, language also comes to me, and I think about this process as part of a larger, more holistic synthesis in which, in my daily life, I\'92m always confronted with these regimes that are trying to make me split my body, mind, and spirit.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : You collect earth from various familial sites and spaces that hold Black American history. Can you speak to some of the sites the earth and sandstone in this installation were sourced from and why?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : When I was in graduate school at Columbia University, my studio was on 125th Street, across from the housing projects that my great-grandmother used to live in. I didn\'92t have a relationship with her, so that geographic proximity made me curious to retrace my family\'92s migration to Harlem. That moment began a process of retracing my ancestors\'92 last addresses and going to those locations, even as far away as Saint Croix. Many of these spaces were in a state of ruin because of neglect and natural disasters, and so the literal debris and earth were\
the only remnants that I felt held traces of the lives of the ancestors I was trying to build this connection with. In 2014\uc0\u8232 my high school building was demolished to make way for luxury condominiums, and all the alumni went there and collected the bricks and the debris and took it home, and so the convergence of those two experiences made me realize that materials like earth and debris are imbued with memory. When I was in Virginia doing a residency at Virginia Commonwealth University, I started visiting former plantations, and I was really shocked by the commodification of these sites. People get married at these plantations, and I\'92m like, wait, what is this? Historical amnesia? So collecting materials in these spaces felt really significant. The sandstone included in 
\f1\i Between Starshine & Clay 
\f0\i0 was inspired by a research trip to Washington, DC, for my public art project 
\f1\i Ruins of Empire 
\f0\i0 (2022). I saw a commemorative piece of sandstone,\uc0\u8232 and it said something like \'93this sandstone was carved in a quarry by indentured and slave laborers,\'94 and it hit me that all these federal buildings were made by people who were subjugated.\
That realization made me want to incorporate the sandstone into the project, so I reached out to a local historical society that had materials from an original building, and they generously sent me some sandstone to use in my work.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : When you create these amorphous bodies that bear traces of the human form, you employ techniques that shape and harden your materials. What concoctions and recipes have you created over the years that generate these objects?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : The impulse to start making sculptures out of earth stemmed from a residency in Northern California. I would go on these meditative walks every day along the coast, and the landscape is\uc0\u8232 so striking because there are these huge cliffs that meet the ocean. Every day, for hours, I would observe the ocean brushing against the land, and one day it hit me how sublime that is and how magnificent the ocean is to have carved these massive, beautiful shapes into the hard, dense earth. This repeated gesture was a choreography if you will, like the ocean just constantly meeting the earth, and over time these shapes emerged and formed. When I first started making the sculptures, I had a pile of dirt on the floor in my studio that I was experimenting with, and I thought of that coastline and realized I was missing water to give it shape, so I started making a mud mix. Sometimes I think about my hand as the ocean, in the sense that\
the ocean is a sculptor, and over time I developed both the recipe, the way I get the material to mold, but also the gestures that I use to get it to take shape. I think of the material as a collaborator because the conditions have to be right for the work to be created. Otherwise the works will fall apart, and so it has been a long and engaged material study in terms of how to make sculptures that are sound and sturdy. I also found an organic, eco-friendly binder that I add that makes the pieces durable.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : The act of sourcing earth from sites that specifically hold histories of Black life/death can be heavy and loaded. How do you hold space and care for the spirits and experiences that are connected to these landscapes?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : Well, I\'92ve realized that the whole damn country is haunted, period. There\'92s no site that hasn\'92t witnessed a violent form of extraction or dispossession or displacement, so you can probably go anywhere, and if you learn the history of a site and see what its former use was before industrialization, you\'92ll learn some really wild stuff. For me this practice of sourcing earth comes from a place of care, and it always starts with acknowledging the earth that I\'92m standing on. You know, I engage in my own private rituals, and I also think there\'92s something cathartic about it. I don\'92t want to compare it to an ancestral-like veneration, but I am trying to be a steward.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : You speak of the \'93ruined\'94 form as a body that is in transition or that has the capacity to reshape and become anew. Can you speak to how that notion calls forth histories of survival but is also a stand-in for the fluidity of gender identity/norms?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : During these different research trips, I was confronting ruins, so there was this architectural reference that was always present. But then, when I was thinking about what a ruin is, it had all these broader relationships to time and this history of being a form from the past that has been destroyed. It\'92s going through a process of decomposition or decay, such that it\'92s not what it was before, but it also holds a certain type of sturdiness and resiliency. So there\'92s this paradox, a play between being susceptible to decay and becoming something different than it was before. In that way the reminder of the past exists in the present, but there\'92s a possibility for a future form. I think about this in the same way I think about gender, this idea of ruining gender and ruining the gender binary. My sculptures often speak to a former sort of self that is going through a process\
of transformation while gesturing toward the possibility of something different.\

\f2\b EC
\f0\b0 : You often reference a history of land art throughout your work and have used the terms 
\f1\i earth
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i soil
\f0\i0 , and 
\f1\i dirt 
\f0\i0 interchangeably to incite some of this history/canon. How do you see your practice engaging with that movement?\

\f2\b KW
\f0\b0 : I started to think about that question a lot more in graduate school, when I was learning more about art history and thinking about these genealogies and movements. I would say that my relationship with it begins with artists like Beverly Buchanan and Ana Mendieta, who weren\'92t necessarily central figures in the movement but who worked with land using their own hands and immersed their bodies into the environment. I think about the fact that land holds meaning and has a relationship to diaspora, notions of belonging, and is a space to reflect on the past and the present. These ideas resonate within my practice, which feels very divergent from the cis white male canon. You know, these ideas of making work in regions such as the Southwest, places that are imagined as blank canvases even though they hold indigenous histories and are spaces of mass displacement, this act of bulldozing and carving out incisions in the land. I find myself looking at and responding to someone like Walter De Maria, specifically his 
\f1\i New York Earth Room 
\f0\i0 (1977), but there\'92s\
a barrier around that work, so you can\'92t touch or walk on it directly. When I do my earth works, people can walk on the floor. I want people to have this physical encounter with the earth similarly to the way I do in the studio. So I think that describes the way I\'92m engaging with land art and reimagining it, but it is also an ongoing conversation.\
One death journey that I think is very well rendered is that of Nago, the wild boar demon in 
\f1\i Princess Mononoke
\f0\i0 . What captivates me most is the particularly unnamable substance that oozes from their pores. It goes through several transformations, including one harrowing spaghetti and blood sausage-like stage, over the course of their long expiration.\
I have always loved the scene from Fellini\'92s 
\f1\i Casanova 
\f0\i0 where the stormy ocean at night is constructed out of black plastic with fans blowing crazily off camera. And the raspy voice with which Norma Desmond says, \'93pumping, pumping, pumping,\'94 in 
\f1\i Sunset Boulevard
\f0\i0 . She\'92s talking about endlessly putting gas in her car and is exasperated and exhausted, but still, somehow it\'92s all going to keep going.\
But then these spirals.\
First in my mom\'92s garden in Flagstaff in the hectic spring wind. They reminded me I\'92m alive and also dying and that it\'92s not the last time that will happen. Also, again, Norma Desmond\'92s \'93pumping\'94 and all of the times I\'92ve spiralized zucchinis in the last months.\
The golden sprinkles are brass shavings. They are also spirals when you get granular. I scooped them up with card stock and an aluminum dustpan; imagine that sound. They are sharp and get stuck in your fingers. The shop manager milled down brass bars for a job making a frame for a grand mirror and this is 90% of the excess.\
The work of Jovencio de la Paz is situated in the intersection of radically different technologies: the loom and the modern computer. They approach this intersection both as a traditionally trained weaver and a digital native. Sharing the same language of binary code, this ancient technology and software are both exploited, disrupted and even undermined in de la Paz\'92s work. They use the digital TC2 (Thread Controller 2) Jacquard loom to manipulate, hack, confound, and fracture design software to explore and test the boundaries of how cloth is typically conceived. They push design software to the point of rupture or failure, capturing the physicality of these behaviors as the warp and weft of hand- woven textiles. Consequently, the works become irreducibly unique \'93accidents\'94 or formal aberrations. As such, the material history and conceptual nature of the work reflects and embodies the personal politics and non binary identity of the artist not merely as a form of affirmative representation, but rather as a complex space of potential.\
For their exhibition at Chris Sharp Gallery, de la Paz presents three new and recent bodies of work, Some Circles, Bent Pyramids, and Warped Grids. In Some Circles, each image is the same set of perfect, concentric circles, designed in the computer. But due to aspect ratio issues, those circles morph based on the various weft threads used to weave them at the digital loom. The final form is the conflict between ideal digital space and the fallibility of physical space. The tension between these two spaces are captured as woven cloth.\
The Bent Pyramid of Dahshur was designed to be an ideal form, but midway through the construction the architect Sneferu realized the slope was too great and if construction continued at the ideally designed slope, the structure would collapse. De la Paz takes this notion as an important conflict between idealism and reality. The weavings of this series take this notion on as a contemporary issue: the ideal space of the digital versus the fallible space of material. The resulting textiles were designed using TC2 software and other image editing software, but the act of translation into cloth, because of variation in size of warp and weft, cause the images to stretch and skew. The final composition is created not solely by the artist or the machines, but a confrontation of the two.\
Lastly, using software de la Paz designed with computer engineer Michael Mack, the Warped Grids series is part of an on-going series of works. They utilized Nills Aall Barracelli\'92s historic (1953) software, \'93BioNumeric Organisms,\'94 which was written for the Institute of Advanced Studies supercomputer to visualize the way in which single celled organisms evolve. They have replaced those single celled organisms with traditional \'93waffle weave\'94 structures. Each weaving is a genealogy of those structures combining, diminishing, and changing over time. This work also attempts to push the boundaries of the dimensionality of the surfaces with which they have been working, pushing them close to the point of failure. De la Paz has long been interested in how the mathematical community have referred to Barricelli\'92s work as \'93abstractions of Darwin\'92s theory of evolution,\'94 and they have used this idea as a precept for all their work for the last\
half decade.\
	The disruptive moment of the collective loss of control that occurred with the outbreak of the Corona pandemic is the point of departure for the group exhibition I Offer You a Journey Without Direction, Uncertainty and No Sweet Conclusion. The feeling of insecurity and the realization that one's own plans - private, professional, social plans - are no longer in our hands, are still shaping our lives today. At the same time, questions arise as to whether control was not already an illusion before the pandemic and that planning security is in any case only a privilege of a few people. The exhibition assembles artistic positions that approach the theme of travel as a moment of uncertainty, of being at the mercy of others, or of being stuck, and that invite us to contemplation. All artworks operate with openness and reflect on unpredictability and uncertainty as potential for reorientation. \
MISAKO & ROSEN is pleased to announce the debut solo exhibition in Tokyo of Brazilian artist, Tiago Carneiro da Cunha. Da Cunha considers both the over (sunbathers) and under (beggars) sexualized bodies of his local context and lore in an exaggerated manner and within the greater context of a landscape (world) heading towards apocalypse; seduction and desire are subverted by an overblown sense of cataclysm represented by both human and other natural (trees, ocean waves, the sun) forms heavily painted in colors at once alluring and lurid.\
Da Cunha\'92s work has been exhibited at institutions including the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and the Museum of Modern Art, Rio de Janeiro, as well as within the 30th S\'e3o Paulo Art Biennial. MISAKO & ROSEN previously presented Da Cunha\'92s work in a two-person exhibition, together with fellow Brazilian artist, Erika Verzutti.\
S\'f3ley Ragnarsd\'f3ttir\'92s first institutional solo exhibition, 
\f1\i Organizing Principles
\f0\i0 , weaves itself through the first floor of O\'97Overgaden as a hyper-ornamented artistic universe in which acrylic and epoxy intermingle with amber, seashells, and ocean-sharpened glass pieces on large, freestanding paintings and neatly decorated napkin pieces. The walls are covered in patterned wallpaper, and eyes made from the same materials as boats and surfboards hang from the ceiling in fishing ropes in front of amber-toned windows.\
When the Covid-19 crisis disrupted the world, Ragnarsd\'f3ttir moved to Thy in Northern Jutland. This new life among amber hunters, fishermen, and surfers clearly influenced the artist\'92s unique, visual voice as well as the conceptual layers of the exhibition. Through Ragnarsd\'f3ttir\'92s eyes we see life by the sea as a poetic fable. \'93The ocean ties it all together: to the fishermen, the ocean is a workplace and to the surfers, it is a playground,\'94 says Ragnarsd\'f3ttir, who uses decorative elements to investigate how we deal with the nature surrounding us.\
The exhibition points at a tendency to organize life in boxes; the city and the human as opposites to the natural world. Ragnarsd\'f3ttir offers us a different\'97less organized and more sensuous\'97way of being in the world, and with 
\f1\i Organizing Principles 
\f0\i0 she directs our gaze towards the life-giving symbioses that can occur when otherwise differentiated materials, stories, and worlds meet.\
Ragnarsd\'f3ttir\'92s sculptural approach to painting allows for the exhibition\'92s pictorial language to move from the canvas out to all the elements in the space. In this way the artist creates a fascinating aestheticized world flirting with kitsch and bearing traces of the Arts & Crafts traditions of handicraft, as well as of the artist\'92s Icelandic origins. The decorative traditions of handicraft have long been positioned as an opposite to the elevated fine arts, but Ragnarsd\'f3ttir shakes things up and focuses our attention on the artistic value of the decorative as something also entitled to take up space in the scope of contemporary art.\
The exhibition Woven Memories follows a trail between present and past in which personal, social and global events interweave. Through painting and installation, Theresa Weber examines cultural hybridisation, ideals of beauty and multiply coded symbols of belonging.\
Embedded in a playfully dystopian architectural ruin of bricks and Lianas (2019) that causes interior and exterior to merge, various wall objects give rise to a landscape with points of spatial and temporal depth. Some of the wall fragments also function as presentation surfaces, as do metal constructions that resemble hammock frames, or the lianas in which objects are entwined.\
Theresa Weber works familiar, strange, fetishised elements into these picture-like objects, along with personal found items and souvenirs that tell of her German-Jamaican-Greek background. Her interest in prostheses and hybrid bodies (human/object) is expressed in the use of materials such as artificial nails, synthetic hair, body padding and silicon, but also textiles and jewellery. These are all things that extend the body and give it an identity. In the artistic works they become organic cultural traces, disembodied remnants whose historical associations and social hierarchies are decoded on the material level.\
As an Afro-German artist, Weber makes conscious use of codes that can be read in multiple ways and refer to different cultures or epochs. Braids of artificial hair (weaves) are a centuries-old cultural practice in the African diaspora, a source of identity and a symbol of resistance. Here the tradition of braiding forms a historical bridge to the elaborate hairstyles of Greek antiquity which also echo through Theresa Weber\'92s work.\
For her processual pieces she collects artefacts that refer to dichotomous spiritual categories such as life and death \'96 hair, nails, insects \'96 to transparency and opacity \'96 silicon, polyester, paper prints \'96 and to past and present \'96 real turn-of-century jewellery, costume jewellery. She also frequently weaves parts of existing works into new ones.\
The resulting assemblages initially arise on a horizontal surface, on which the artist examines the objects\'92 interconnections. The art historian Leo Steinberg (1920\'962011) describes this practice of horizontal arrangement as working on the \'91flatbed\'92. The image carrier isn\'92t thought of as an illusory space, as in classical painting, but as a surface on which different information can be ordered and sorted so as to produce coherence or chaos through its arrangement. Both ends of the spectrum are present in Weber\'92s works. The dimensions are displaced in grid patterns, and a fingerprint or fingernail looks almost architectural next to the depiction of a piece of wall. This displacement demonstrates the connection between bodies, buildings and society. Each element is part of a greater whole: \'91Chaos is beautiful when one understands that all its elements are equally necessary.\'92 (\'c9douard Glissant)\
The earth was born about 4.6 billion years ago, and life appeared on it about 560 million\
years later. That primordial life is thought to have taken the form of unicellular bacteria. But why did life arise in the first place? What phenomena did the diverse species inhabiting the earth go through in their journey to the present? Today, when we are taking another look at the nature of humanity and affluence amid the current pandemic, what sort of meaning does life have?\
In the process of cell division, which is at the foundation of all life, faulty DNA reproduction causes mutations. Resulting in the appearance of morphological and physiological differences between individuals of the same species, do mutations work to the advantage of life, or are they threats to it? Although they are errors as viewed from the standpoint of genes, they are also the stuff of evolution. Mutations are not mere changes; they are additionally problems that may entail acceptance of the loss of identity or of the species. Their uncertainty and ambiguity make mutations both eerie and attractive. They may perhaps be construed as challenges to the existing social structure and thought, heralding the dawn of a new age. Is it possible to project this concept of biological and genetic mutation onto the world of art? And what will come into view by so doing?\
Never the Same Ocean is a group exhibition of works by artists based in various parts of the world. Under the circumstances of a pandemic facing the whole world in common, the exhibition will show works produced in the same period, but in different regions and with different cultural backgrounds, in the same space. It will consequently be a venue for the intersection of universality and locality.\uc0\u8232 In Never the Same Ocean, we will explore the possibilities of art through mutation in this world of ours in constant flux.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 The Inner Lives of Islands 
\f0\i0 brings together five artists who explore storytelling instincts from the vantage point of the Pacific Ocean. These artists play on well-worn narrative conventions of character, setting and plot development as a means of making sense of the unlikely realities they face as Asian\uc0\u8232 and Pacific peoples in the world. Shying away from the coherency of the beginning-middle-end format, the artworks presented here instead embrace a complexity and plurality of voice, logic and linearity.\
Though we might understand that the stories we tell ourselves and others are revealing in terms of our experiences and perspectives, in this instance the extension of this truth to the lands we inhabit draws on Epeli Hau\'91ofa\'92s idea that the oceans between our islands act as a vast network of connections rather than separating them into disparate locales.1 The initial prompt for this exhibition came out of\
a very specific cultural exchange between island nations\'97the popularity of Filipino soap operas in Samoa. Although we\'92ve often seen the border- crossing potential of entertainment media (think of the transportability of reality TV, from the 
\f1\i Idol 
\f0\i0 format to the increasingly persistent 
\f1\i RuPaul\'92s Drag Race
\f0\i0 ),\
1 Epeli Hau\'91ofa, \'91Our Sea of Islands\'92, 
\f1\i The Contemporary Pacific
\f0\i0 , Volume 6, Number 1, Spring 1994, pp. 147\'9661.\
it\'92s interesting to consider the particularity of the exchanges (think of the popularity of Australia\'92s 
\f1\i Home and Away 
\f0\i0 in the United Kingdom, which is a markedly different kind of exchange to the popularity among some of 
\f1\i Coronation Street 
\f0\i0 here in Aotearoa).\
I was initially interested in what shared cultural values might exist between the Philippines and Samoa that allow for such an exchange to occur. Both countries are deeply religious and both have co-existing and conflicting colonial and militaristic histories with the United States as well as their more immediate neighbours. Anecdotally, I had heard that Filipino shows such as 
\f1\i Tayong Dalawa 
\f0\i0 and 
\f1\i Sa Piling Mo 
\f0\i0 were shown on Samoan TV without subtitles. If so, what is gleaned by the audience must be almost solely visual\'97the body language of the actors, the filmic conventions of lighting, framing and editing. What sense can be made, let alone empathy for\
Insisting on the role of language here, however, is the kind of coherency-seeking that limits our potential for garnering a rich and complex understanding\uc0\u8232 of the role of storytelling. No story is a discrete whole. We are equipped as people to obtain critical information through a wide array of methods. We interpret non-verbal cues, we analyse context, and we read between the lines. Expanding the voices and perspectives out from that initial interrogation of the Samoa\'96Philippines relationship, this exhibition looks at the interplay between diasporic identities and nationhood, and the insufficiency of language to describe such experiences.\

\f1\i What\'92s the worst you could do? 
\f0\i0 is a newly commissioned two-channel video work by Christopher Ulutupu, a Te Whanganui-a-Tara-based artist of Samoan/Niuean/German descent. In this work Ulutupu revisits a script he wrote in 2012 when he worked in the film and theatre industry. Ulutupu\'92s\
the characters and stories created, when such a language barrier exists?\
practice has had an ongoing concern with historic representations of Samoan and Pacific bodies and their contemporary implications. 
\f1\i The Romantic Picturesque: The Postcard Trilogy 
\f0\i0 (2016\'9618) saw Ulutupu navigating indigeneity and colonial relations alongside popular culture references, high-fashion visuals and a penchant for karaoke performance. This new work maintains some of the hallmarks of Ulutupu\'92s working methodologies\'97scenic natural landscapes, dramatic musical numbers and a cast of family and friends\'97but it also veers into darker territory than previously explored.\
The original script told the story of a struggling, recently solo mother of two mischievous boys who finds opportunity in a talent show held at a local RSA, but which ultimately results in an altercation with her ex-husband. However, 
\f1\i What\'92s the worst you could do? 
\f0\i0 sees dialogue removed altogether. The characters remain\'97the protagonist solo-mum, the antagonist ex-husband, and the cheeky boys\'97but their intentions and motivations are murkier. In a particularly haunting scene, the original scripted altercation is reimagined as a group assault on an empty car; the initially lone woman soon joined by six other figures armed with sticks and cricket bats. As in Ulutupu\'92s previous work, the series of scenes may be connected as closely as the viewer perceives them to be, but what\'92s not said leaves greater room for interpretation and, perhaps more revealingly, assumption.\
Also working in video is Shireen Seno (Philippines) and Yuki Iiyama (Japan). Seno, a Tokyo-born Filipino artist and filmmaker, explores ideas of nostalgia, family and the subtle violences experienced in childhood. Seno\'92s 2014 short film 
\f1\i Shotgun Tuding 
\f0\i0 is a Filipino Spaghetti Western or, as described by the artist, a \'93Pancit Western\'94\'97
\f1\i pancit 
\f0\i0 being Tagalog for noodles. The film tells the story of Tuding\'92s search for the man who got her younger sister pregnant, encountering a group of bandits along the way. Shot\
on 16mm film, the treatment and colouring adhere to the genre tropes of the Western, as do the costumes and props. However, the film is entirely in Tagalog (save one exchange where the titular character boasts of her knowledge of American guns) and\
is very much set in the Philippines. There is an ad hoc adherence to the genre, with horses trekking through tall grass fields and rice fields, and beyond them coconut trees and bamboo houses with thatched roofs.\
Iiyama uses archival material and personal interviews to explore various social stigmas. 
\f1\i Moomin Family goes on a picnic to see Kannon 
\f0\i0 (2014) sees the artist\'92s sister detailing her hallucinations of\uc0\u8232 the Moomins, the Swedish-speaking characters from the Finnish books and comic strip, followed\u8232 by documentation of her family dressed as the comic\'92s characters visiting a shrine to the Japanese Buddhist goddess Kannon. The Moomins\'97 white chubby creatures with large snouts, vaguely resembling hippopotamuses\'97are extremely popular in Japan, resonating with the country\'92s anime culture. Both Iiyama and Seno look to offshore narrative conventions to tell particular local stories. While Seno\'92s 
\f1\i Shotgun Tuding 
\f0\i0 nods to the pervasive American influence still present in the Philippines, Iiyama\'92s work uses a nationally beloved international cartoon to explore some of the darker aspects of Japan\'92s attitudes towards mental health.\
Two artists working in sculpture are also included\uc0\u8232 in the exhibition, Emerita Baik (Te Whanganui-a- Tara based, of South Korean descent) and Sione Tu\'edvailala Mon\u117 \u772  (living between Australia and Aotearoa, of Tongan descent). Many of Baik\'92s interests lie in the indescribable migrant experience of living between two cultures, specifically those\
of Korea and Aotearoa. Informed largely by her mother\'92s experience of moving to Aotearoa, Baik\'92s work combines traditional and contemporary techniques that explore the histories and stories that\
objects are imbued with. In Baik\'92s three works 
\f1\i Nose of a pig
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i Head of a camel 
\f0\i0 and 
\f1\i Eyes of a rabbit 
\f0\i0 (all 2021), for instance, the circular sculptures reference the Korean tradition of bottari, a method of bundling possessions with cloth to store, protect, gift and move them from one place to another.\
Similarly referencing traditional practices is\uc0\u8232 Mon\u117 \u772 \'92s \'91
\f1\i Ao kakala 
\f0\i0 (2021). Mon\uc0\u117 \u772 , who works across photography, video, adornment and performance, explores identity, family and Pacific-diasporic queer experiences. The sculptural clouds of 
\f1\i \'91Ao kakala 
\f0\i0 are part of the artist\'92s ongoing work with nimamea\'91a tuikakala, the Tongan fine art of flower designing. Like Baik, Mon\uc0\u117 \u772  traces back generational and cultural practices using contemporary methods. Utilising plastic flowers and beads, often from the South Auckland variety stores whose products come from giant Chinese online retailers, Mon\u117 \u772  plays on the associations we have with certain materials, all the while maintaining a lightness and whimsy.\
All the artists in 
\f1\i The Inner Lives of Islands 
\f0\i0 tell stories about identities that have traversed oceans. In varying ways, they look to genealogies that connect them to their homes, wherever those homes might be. Resisting the coherence of total and singular narratives, they employ layered storylines and perspectives to piece together and make sense\
of their places in the world. The artworks here are dreamlike, telling of worlds rooted in reality as well as hoping for something more.\
\'96 Robbie Handcock\
Diving into this underwater atmosphere, the body is asked to perform a specific and at the same time ambiguous choreography, halfway between swim- ming and flying. In Seabed Monsters and the Cos- mic Rays, Lu\'eds L\'e1zaro Matos\'92 third solo exhibition at Madragoa, one must suspect gravity and be guided by fluctuations. A multimedia installation that emer- ges as a hybrid ecosystem of lights and foam, sands and planets, ships and sea creatures, confusing the depths of the oceans with the emptiness of the cos- mos. In this imaginative exercise, Lu\'eds L\'e1zaro Matos invents a world in which empathy between stars and aquatic beings prevails, a pact for the end of gravity. In the background, Bermuda Triangle echoes in a hypnotic and melancholic tone. Like crashed airpla- nes, we find ourselves drawn into this dream whe- re manta rays conspire with the stars and the moon rises through the seaweed. Useless fugitives from the violence of the lights \'96 \'93I wish those lights could make this pain go away / I wish those lights could make them come back again\'94 \'96 more than just a pre- text for the background, we found an alternative to the mere terrestrial existence.\
The music video from L\'e1zaro Matos\'92 latest album, Waves and Whirlpools, works as a binding element. Repeatedly circular, manta rays, bubbles, lights, faces, seaweed and jellyfish are taken slowly, dan- cing on the screen and attracting immersion. Without knowing for sure whether a whirlpool or black hole, the audiovisual experience invites you to an astral journey through a lysergic ocean of extraterrestrial beings and sea monsters. The Bermuda triangle is a founding myth, a symbolic clot, a wormhole betwe- en the mysteries of the universe and the ocean, the geographical position that speaks of the landscapes\'92\
2 MADRAGOA\
Rua do Machadinho, 45 1200-705 Lisboa - PORTUGAL galeriamadragoa.pt\
power to make things disappear.\uc0\u8232 Lights of unknown origin, strange latitudinal move- ments, and unidentified circular elements form an alliance with the hoops of light suspended around the gallery. Like a promiscuous bridge between unk- nown worlds, the Ring Lights, which could be stars that survived the refraction of water, air bubbles or UFOs, suggest a hybrid luminescence that gives a neon status to the sea, as if all that peaceful and si- lent landscape had been taken by an electric shock. The LED light, more than illuminating a face for any Tik Tok video, is here as a mysterious ring that qui- ckly transforms into an unidentified object, scanning the vast star horizon of the cosmos.\u8232 The mural, a recurring element in the artist\'92s practi- ce, occupies the entire gallery and seems to impo- se specific conditions of temperature and pressure. Under this surface, large canvases are like spaces that create other spaces, threatening the stability of walls that seem to follow secret sea currents. On the one hand, the electrifying lightness of the elements transports us toward a naive elation, nourished by this dreamlike universe that is not known if it came out of a cartoon, Instagram filter or dream. On the other hand, the density of the seabed is very tangi- ble in these self-portraits that appear in the waves, showing the profile of the artist who paints while di- ving. Mixing humor and drama, the seriousness un- derlying the desire to imagine other relational modes and heterogeneous communities between humans and non-humans is disturbed.\u8232 Along with the movement of the waters, we are se- duced by the languid undulation of the manta rays that surround us, emotional figures that guide the ex- perience to levitation. The series of ceramic pieces entitled Everything Is Going To Be Alright create a collective suspended body that functions as a lost link between the cosmos and the ocean, a moving, spatial being, slowly wandering through the void. Close to the ground, they are a living extension of the ground, guided by the undecipherable march of Bermuda Triangle \'96 \'93Above the water, soaking life in mystery.\'94 As beings of doubtful origin, they guide us on this astral journey through the oceanic soils. They perform a slow movement as if prescribed for a diagnosis of anxiety. They are an invitation to lay down and become a bed. Like a magic carpet or a spaceship with an uncertain course, they launch themselves into an underwater cruising, flirting with the depth and the surface.\
Omar Ba was born in 1977 in a Serer village located 150 km from Dakar in the Fatick region of Senegal. He was trained at the \'c9cole Nationale des Beaux-Arts de Dakar and the \'c9cole des Beaux-Arts de Gen\'e8ve. The artist lives and works between Dakar, Senegal, and Geneva, Switzerland.\
Ba\'92s work engages with some of the most urgent issues of our time: the growing inequality of wealth and power globally, questions around immigration, and our changing relationship with the natural world. Ba regularly draws from and intertwines a range of elements from African and European cultures, as well as the techniques and tools he employs, including corrugated cardboard and canvas, paintbrushes and his hands. He prepares his surfaces \'96 whether cardboard, canvas or wall \'96 with a black ground, upon which he layers a vivid palette dominated by primary colours. The paintings teem with details as micro-worlds exist within larger constellations, oscillating between bold planes of colour and intricate outlines. Largely symbolic, the figures and forms portrayed refer not to specific individuals, but are open to universal narratives.\
The artist\'92s latest paintings depict dictators and authority figures who lead corrupt and violent regimes across the African continent. Represented as beasts \'96 part human, part animal \'96 these despotic warlords are typically enveloped in an abundance of lush flora and fauna. The world of Ba\'92s painting is a hybrid one, ultimately evoking a shared cosmogony between humans, plants, and animals.\
In 2021, Ba is opening a solo show at Wilde (Basel, Switzerland). Other recent solo shows include those at Contemporary Calgary (Canada), MBAM (Montr\'e9al, Canada), Wilde (Geneva, Switzerland) and The Power Plant (Toronto, Canada). Recent group exhibitions feature ones at Centre Pompidou (Paris, France), Mus\'e9e d\'92Art Contemporain (Marseille, France), Fondation Louis Vuitton (Paris, France), Palais des Beaux-Arts (Brussels, Belgium), Royal Academy of Arts (London, UK) and Galerie Guy B\'e4rtschi, now Wilde (Geneva Switzerland). His works have been included in several public collections, including those of the Centre National des Arts Plastiques (Paris, France), Swiss National Collection (Basel, Switzerland), Fondation Louis Vuitton (Paris, France), Louvre (Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates), Collection du Credit Suisse (Switzerland), Collection Mirabaud (Switzerland) and Ville de Gen\'e8ve (Switzerland).\
\'91Pearl Lines\'92 marks the third solo exhibition of New York-based artist Walter Price at The Modern Institute. Price presents a series of paintings spanning the last three years in the Aird\'92s Lane gallery, alongside new drawings positioned in the adjacent Bricks Space.\
Walter Price\'92s paintings offer visions that straddle abstraction and representation, combining suggestions of personal memories, collective history and cultural ciphers within his constructions. Extraordinarily apt at placing the viewer, Price\'92s compositions invoke the feeling of peering into lucid dreams or surreal stage sets, bringing forth an awareness of looking at a familiar setting but from an unusual and disjointed view, as if a wall were removed to allow quiet observation from a specific perspective. Objects are thus placed to accommodate this direction, or appear in motion as though the viewer stumbles upon seemingly private scenes: figures appear to be in repose as they lounge within the space surrounded by a chest of drawers, sofa, table, all the usual hallmarks of a domestic interior. However there is an idiosyncrasy in them \'96 these sparse interiors act as vehicles for the non-linear narratives they hold rather than mirroring a reality.\
The rich mercurial colours awash in Price\'92s paintings denote both atmosphere and the fractured spaces within the setting. Associations are created throughout the paintings between the bold \'96 and at times contrasting \'96 tones and the references that enrich these images. In the work \'91Facetime\'92 (2019), hues of pink dominate the scene as the glow of the television-set in the bottom corner bathes its surroundings. \'91Florida Man\'92 (2019) is consumed by shades of orange, at once obscuring figurative elements whilst drawing out layers of marks and lines of familiar motifs Price gravitates towards throughout his work. Within the exhibition itself, Price forgos the ubiquitous white-cube gallery format, instead setting a deep black flooring and matching the \'96 a meditative setting for the endlessly inventive environments that inhabit his paintings.\
Hung in the gallery\'92s Bricks Space, a new body of works on paper are Price\'92s grounds for experimentation, as figurative elements consort with moments of abstraction \'96 striking a harmonious balance between contradictions. Employing mediums such as collage, colour pencil, marker, pastel amongst others within his drawings, Price\'92s drawings can be viewed as precursors to his paintings.\
Tara Walters makes large scale paintings using oil-based paints, pure pigment, crystal-based watercolors, and saltwater from the Pacific Ocean. Dropping into a deeply meditative state as she paints, her process is one of centering, stillness, and listening. The paintings often begin with a specific color or gesture, sometimes with a composition in mind and other times responding to forms that unexpectedly appear. A student of mediumship and esoteric traditions, psychic signs and symbols are both influences and tools. Celestial bodies, prismatic auras and other optical light effects hint at the Spirit that guides her creative process. In her new body of work, the romantic, imaginative scenes celebrate the living things that surround us \'96 the earth, the air, the water, the animals. Reflecting on painters who have touched on similar imagery, from William Blake and Odilon Redon to Paul Thek and Beatrix Potter, Walters\'92 monumental paintings celebrate both the mystical and the natural world; the expansive and the intimate; wonder and imagination.\
Born in Washington, D.C., Tara Walters lives and works in Los Angeles. She received her MFA in 2020 from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, CA and her BFA in Painting from the Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, GA. This is Walters\'92 first exhibition at the gallery.\
Various Small Fires is pleased to present an exhibition of new works by Ashley Bickerton (b. Barbados, 1959, lives in Bali, Indonesia) and the artist\'92s first solo show with the gallery.\
Bickerton, while known as an American artist, has lived and worked on the south coast of the island of Bali\uc0\u8232 for the past 27 years. He grew up moving between a series of islands in several oceans, and across four continents. Deeply influenced by the legacy of his father\'92s nomadic career as an internationally acclaimed scholar in anthropological linguistics, Bickerton\'92s peripatetic childhood was critical in shaping the conceptually based and autobiographical practice that he has become known for today. After graduating CalArts in 1982, Bickerton wasted little time moving to New York City and establishing himself as one of the seminal figures in a group of artists coming out the the then explosive East Village scene, a group variously referred to as Neo-Geo or Commodity Art, and that included the likes of Peter Halley, Haim Steinback, Allan McCollum, and Jeff Koons. The works that ensued from this hotbed, while borrowing liberally from the language of earlier modernist developments in 20th century art, including minimalism, conceptualism, and pop art, shifted those dialogues dramatically to create a critical practice that raised questions about the commercialization of contemporary cultural consumption and the commodification of the art object itself.\
An avid lifelong surfer and fervent anti-conformist, Bickerton followed his instincts and left New York permanently after 12 years, taking with him his singular approach and vision to the antipodean reaches of\uc0\u8232 the Indian Ocean. His most recent body of work on view at Various Small Fires includes three new series\u8232 that collectively take us back full circle to a much earlier phase of the artist\'92s career. Indeed, this newest body of work can be seen as the natural progeny of the artist\'92s 
\f1\i Landscapes and Seascapes 
\f0\i0 series from the late 1980s\'97 first shown with critical acclaim at Sonnabend Gallery in New York during the same era. Encased in packing cases and travel modified vitrines, these works quote liberally from the historic traditions of landscape painting and reference an array of artists that range from JMW Turner to Milton Avery and Albert Pinkham Ryder. Bathed in both organic and acid hues, and dissected by undulating lines of ocean borne flotsam and detritus, these works, like traditional Chinese landscape do not so much describe a place, as trigger the experience of immersion in landscape itself. Bickerton himself has described this series as follows:\
\'93When I think about these pieces, I think of words and terms like flotsam, borderless oceanic detritus, seascapes, culturescapes, swirling cosmologies of micro plastics, fragments of human narratives, residues of lives lived, of vestiges of human presence now swirling in great molecular vortexes. Landscape and seascape is where I have always been happiest. I long for great silence.\'94\
Bickerton is particularly intrigued by the great gyres, or so-called \'93trash islands\'94, the Texas-sized and decades- long swirling accumulations of non-degradable plastics that today occupy vast tracts of our open oceans. While some might see these works as a lamentation of the planet\'92s demise, Bickerton takes a decidedly different, perhaps almost gleeful approach. He sees this \'91garbage\'92 as a thing of beauty, as much a part of the natural order as the ingenious adaptations of microbes as they take to a new host species. If these works may or\
may not direct us to consider the destruction of our planetary home, as \'91landscapes and seascapes\'92 they certainly throw into question our complicated relationship with the natural world. There is a strange futuristic and celestial lyricism to the work that serves to underscore a dark humor that drives it all, or as the New York Times Critic Holland Cotter put it, \'93It\'92s easy to forget what natural-born moralists American artists are until you encounter someone like Ashley Bickerton. His work doesn\'92t just wag a finger or propose reform. It offers a worldview that is basically an end-of-the-world view, beyond solution, beyond revulsion, blissed-out on the\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 VSF\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 terrible wonder of it all.\'94\
VARIOUS SMALL FIRES, LOS ANGELES / SEOUL INFO@VSF.LA / +1 310.426.8040 SEOUL@VSF.LA / +82 70 8884 0107\
The often sleek and polished exteriors of the 
\f1\i Vector 
\f0\i0 and 
\f1\i Ocean Chunk 
\f0\i0 series in this exhibition are a longtime hallmark of Bickerton\'92s aesthetic, and as has often been noted, recall the so-called \'93finish fetish\'94 of the California minimalists of the 1960s, an influence Bickerton attributes to growing up in the related surf culture of Hawai\'92i. The reflective glass surfaces of the 
\f1\i Flotsam 
\f0\i0 and 
\f1\i Vector 
\f0\i0 works serve a seemingly anthropological or scientific purpose, preserving a taxonomy of detritus in hermetically sealed displays that conjure an eerie version of the museum vitrine. With the glass faces also alluding to a storefront showcase window, we see\
a classic play of multi-edged Bickerton relativism, drawing unflinching attention to the art object\'92s status as a temporally fixed commodity object, while at the same time making fun of itself as a mute philosophical provocation in the face of the eternal.\
Two works from the 
\f1\i Ocean Chunk 
\f0\i0 series are included in the exhibition, one in the project room and another taking its position centrally in the main gallery. Bickerton claims to have conceived the series back when he lived in New York after enduring one grueling North Eastern winter too many. He says, \'93All I wanted to do was swim.\'94 These are surrogates for the balm of warm tropical water. They are an attempt to give flesh to the unattainable, a symbolic facsimile of a piece of ocean and its relevant bathymetry\'96 a visual pill that can offer momentary transportation, a repository for all longing.\
Along with the floating 
\f1\i Ocean Chunk
\f0\i0 , a collection of Bickerton\'92s 
\f1\i Wall-Wall 
\f0\i0 works line the walls of the project room. He sees these \'91visual tautologies\'92 as literally snap on walls to sit on walls, to fill space with color and meaning, to essentially stand in for and act as \'91real\'92 paintings. Bombast and hyperbole are the operative terms here. Resembling both a technicolor rock wall and a carefully arranged constellation of shiny candies, some of the works are adorned with short, poem-like snippets of text\'97 running like subtitles at the base of the works.\uc0\u8232 If these small paragraphs purport to narrate the glossy assemblages above, they also fail to provide any conclusive \'93solution\'94 to what we\'92re looking at. Like the rest of the artist\'92s oeuvre, this is what makes Bickerton\'92s work most engaging: his works are endlessly inquisitive, exploding forth with a fusillade of questions, but offering precious little in the way of any kind of tangible answers.\
Tara Walters makes large scale paintings using oil-based paints, pure pigment, crystal-based watercolors, and saltwater from the Pacific Ocean. Dropping into a deeply meditative state as she paints, her process is one of centering, stillness, and listening. The paintings often begin with a specific color or gesture, sometimes with a composition in mind and other times responding to forms that unexpectedly appear. A student of mediumship and esoteric traditions, psychic signs and symbols are both influences and tools. Celestial bodies, prismatic auras and other optical light effects hint at the Spirit that guides her creative process. In her new body of work, the romantic, imaginative scenes celebrate the living things that surround us \'96 the earth, the air, the water, the animals. Reflecting on painters who have touched on similar imagery, from William Blake and Odilon Redon to Paul Thek and Beatrix Potter, Walters\'92 monumental paintings celebrate both the mystical and the natural world; the expansive and the intimate; wonder and imagination.\
Born in Washington, D.C., Tara Walters lives and works in Los Angeles. She received her MFA in 2020 from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, CA and her BFA in Painting from the Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, GA. This is Walters\'92 first exhibition at the gallery.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 GRIMM is pleased to announce 
\f3\i Condition Humaine
\f2\i0 , a group exhibition with Dirk Braeckman, Matthias Franz, Kati Heck, Chantal Joffe, Dana Lixenberg, Daniel Richter, Norbert Schwontkowski, Caroline Walker and Guido van der Werve.
\f0\b0 \
The exhibition 
\f1\i Condition Humaine 
\f0\i0 showcases a group of artists that investigate the existential psychology of the lived experience through works which transcend modes of representation.\uc0\u8232 In a world commonly thought to be absurd, the participating artists attempt to reconcile one\'92s sense of disorientation and perplexity through various approaches to portraiture, offering still innovations to a centuries-old lexicon in art history. The exhibition borrows its title from Andr\'e9 Malraux\'92s 1933 novel of the same name.\
On this occasion, the gallery presents new works by\uc0\u8232 
\f2\b Matthias Franz 
\f0\b0 (b. 1984, Ilmenau, DE) for the first time in New York since announcing representation of the artist in October 2021.\uc0\u8232 The figures and representations in Franz\'92s paintings are often skewed and abstracted, manipulating the viewer\'92s perspective and driving narrative scenes into uncanny depths. Within the muted oil paintings seen in the exhibition are obscured performance stages, classrooms and beds of sleeping bodies \'96 offering dreamlike wanderings with suggestions of detachment, inaction and rebelliousness.\

\f2\b Caroline Walker 
\f0\b0 (b. 1982, Dunfermline, UK) debuts the first painting in a new series set in an anonymous British holiday resort. A lone figure passively glares past the viewer, lost in a gambling hall\'92s blaze of neon lights. Walker has received wide acclaim for her portrayals of women as works of social commentary. The artist depicts small movements of daily existence and encapsulates\
the corners of life which are often overlooked. The complexities of her subjects' lives rise to the surface and coalesce in images that both fill the senses and speak to poignant moments of human experience.\
Known for painting figures with exceptional psychological and emotional weight, 
\f2\b Chantal Joffe 
\f0\b0 (b. 1969, Saint Albans, VT, US) contributes a new work that depicts the artist\'92s reflection as she looks over her shoulder while painting herself in a mirror. It is\
a self-portrait with an unusual perspective: a viewpoint seldom seen by oneself that offers an intimate and angst-ridden, if even skewed, perspective.\

\f2\b Daniel Richter
\f0\b0 \'92s (b. 1962, Eutin, DE) large-scale painting 
\f1\i Yesterday\'92s News 
\f0\i0 evokes an urgent, kinetic energy, with its subject fleeing the canvas. In this new work, the anthropomorphic figure is represented through lines and fields of colour in an unresolved place that eludes actual spatial orientation. With traces of isolation and violence, Richter\'92s recent works explore movement, energy and formal qualities in painting that evade apparent narrative elements.\
In the Valley of the Moon the water rolls off the ocean and rushes up the slopes as a dense vapor. It idles in thick white masses at the crest. Looking up at the ridge these clouds feel grown from the earth. Night by night the moon approaches this huddled mist, leaps forward, and finds itself a double in the fog. Duplicated, it hovers and shines there for hours on end.\
Rindon Johnson\'92s 
\f1\i The Valley of the Moon
\f0\i0 , his first solo exhibition with Fran\'e7ois Ghebaly, arises from this landscape of lunar doubling. Through a wide range of mediums and working styles, the exhibition presents a view into Johnson\'92s exploration of material history, economies of value, and the porosity of being human.\
The exhibition opens with a trio of dyed leather sculptures, part of an ongoing series that uses furniture grade cowhide, a byproduct from industrial beef production. Johnson smeared the skins with polyurethane, indigo, coffee, salt and woodstain, then left them outside under the elements for over a year, where they gathered flows of rust, oak leaves, and the raining ash of a California fire season. These works build on Johnson\'92s notion of the 
\f1\i byproduct 
\f0\i0 as a broader historical and conceptual condition. Whereas furniture leather is a byproduct of industrial animal processing, and Vaseline a byproduct of petroleum refining, Johnson proposes that American Blackness itself is a byproduct of another capitalist megaindustry: the transatlantic slave trade. The series poses a number of questions\'97what overlapping systems have conspired to allow us to come into being? To come into thinking? How do we reckon with and reconceptualize our place in a broader ecology of exploitations and freedoms?\
On another level, Johnson\'92s handling of cowhides speaks to a recognition of animal agency, questioning the ethics and sustainability of our industrial meat practices. Elsewhere in the exhibition, a virtual reality film picks up on this attunement to animal life. 
\f1\i May the moon meet us apart, may the sun meet us together 
\f0\i0 is a virtual reality film rendered in real time. The work is part of the artist\'92s ongoing Nere Gar series which began with 2019\'92s 
\f1\i Meat Growers: A Love Story
\f0\i0 , a speculative fiction wherein a new understanding of plant and animal sentience has spread through American society, leading to fraught new debates: to what extent do we take into account the wishes of our food? Among the scientific breakthroughs of this alternate era is a newly engineered species of marine dwelling animals, the Bists, who float peacefully through the water, filtering and feeding on the microplastics that suffuse the planet. 
\f1\i May the moon 
\f0\i0 depicts a gathering of these telepathic chimeras. A calm, twinkling soundtrack, composed by Anthony Green and Elizabeth Baker, plays as we consider the convening of these aquatic others, our transhuman evolutionary offspring.\
The exhibition also features a number of collaborative works, created in partnership with Los Angeles based artist Jordan Loeppky- Kolesnik. The pair cast oak burls\'97tree growths that indicate physical stress or infection\'97in bronze and white plaster, further evoking skin in a triangulation between plant tissue, human flesh, and the white gallery walls. A monitor in a gallery hallway beams in an arched sculpture from a thicket of trees in Northern California. Last, hanging over the exhibition is a disc of blown glass and glowing neon, a celestial double for the electrified landscape of Los Angeles, far from the Valley of the Moon.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Art Gallery, University of Hawai\'91i at M\uc0\u97 \u772 noa (UHM), is proud to present 
\f1\i Ken Okiishi: A Model Childhood
\f0\i0 . This exhibition, curated by Maika Pollack, meditates on the fraught legacy of Japanese-American history and the model minority myth in the larger contexts of American, global and continuously rewritten fragments of Asian-American history.\

\f1\i Ken Okiishi: A Model Childhood 
\f0\i0 focuses on ruptures and paradigm shifts that destroy not only continuity in living one\'92s life, but the ability to think in coherent streams of thought, and conjectures that these modes of dis-formation are important central dis-organizing principles of writing American history. In 
\f1\i A Model Childhood, 
\f0\i0 Okiishi approaches history through the lens of family and oral history, bringing both an intimacy and complexity to official narratives of the time period. Immediately after the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941, Okiishi\'92s grandfather, following a frantic phone call from his brother, whose house had just been searched by the Honolulu police looking for connections to Japan, decided to suddenly unload all traces of the family\'92s Japanese possessions by dumping them into M\uc0\u97 \u772 mala Bay. This leitmotif of American identity formation haunts what ensues.\
The exhibition tells this story in poetically interlocking parts, including: A display of the totality of Okiishi\'92s childhood belongings (1978\'962001), meticulously archived by his parents, who had settled in the university town of Ames, Iowa in the late 1950s; A video, projected on and through this childhood archive, which shows a view of walking through the ruins of the Topaz War Relocation Center, a concentration camp in Delta, Utah; A video showing a forensic scan of the basement of Okiishi\'92s family home set into a desert landscape, documenting the family\'92s basement archive before the removal of the section dedicated to Ken\'92s childhood; A family history video for insurance purposes, made by the artist\'92s mother, documenting every object in the Okiishi household circa 2009; A large banner made from a photograph of a Boys\'92 Day memento from 1940\'97Okiishi\'92s father as an infant, posed amid fifty Japanese dolls depicting the life of a warrior which were thrown into the ocean upon the threat of internment a year later.\
Finally, a photographic slideshow of Okiishi\'92s cross-country trip in 2018, with more than 300 photographic images, shows a process whereby the modes of landscape and road trip\
photography are recorded via an eye that no longer sees the ideological function of those modes of image production as related to American expanse and freedom.\
As Okiishi says of the work, \'93Everyone suffers from this history that has never been properly worked through and it continues to be played out on the faces and bodies of all Asian Americans up to and including in the present. Visiting the site that was held over my father\'92s generation (children at the time, carried through into adult subject formation) as the threat of non-compliance to strict and narrow parameters of being a good American, in the most violent form of that idea, punctured the fiction of power in the political moment when its real possibility of reinvigorated methods was becoming all too real in that inescapable sense of knowing but unable to do anything other than witness and survive.\'94\

\f1\i Ken Okiishi: A Model Childhood 
\f0\i0 is curated by Maika Pollack. Dr. Pollack is director and chief curator, John Young Museum of Art and University Galleries and assistant professor of curatorial studies and art history, University of Hawai\'91i at M\uc0\u97 \u772 noa.\
Fran\'e7ois Ghebaly is proud to announce Meriem Bennani\'92s 
\f1\i Guided Tour of a Spill
\f0\i0 , the artist\'92s first solo exhibition with the gallery.\
Before we get to the spill, you should know a bit about the island called the CAPS, this place in the middle of the Atlantic. The CAPS began as a detention camp for arrested teleporters, migrants swatted from the sky by American Troopers and held here to await processing. Violently rearranged from a quantum teleportation state into the forms you see now, the CAPS residents built their bodies and their lives back anew. As camps grew into neighborhoods and neighborhoods into urban enclaves, a distinctly hybrid culture developed on the island.\
This diasporic culture of remix and recombination was fed by a trickle of data from the outside world. A single cable, limited and controlled by the Americans, brought the global internet to the CAPS. The videos, songs, and images that made it through were immediately taken up by the CAPS residents, dismantled and remixed through the cultural codes on the ground, creolized through their own spoken languages, their own visual principles, their own media histories.\
Then came the spill. As you might guess, crocodiles and cables don\'92t mix. The puncture sent a spew of information into the ocean\'97 MP9s and M7Vs, algorithmic ads and cookie warnings, posts and passwords, all tumbling in the waves, settling among the coral, working their way up the food chain like toxins bioaccumulating. 
\f1\i The ocean became a Youtube soup, and you\'92ve been swimming in it
\f0\i0 . This disaster of data leaking out into the water, this streaming rupture, this is what we are here to see before us in this guided tour of a spill.\
Chris Sharp Gallery is pleased to present the US solo debut of the British artist Sophie Barber.\
The work of Sophie Barber is animated by a subtle series of paradoxes. Whatever she might be portraying\'96 Barry Flanagan or Franz West sculptures at a radically reduced scale, articles from 
\f1\i Art Review 
\f0\i0 magazine, or photographs of celebrities taken by artists\'96 she does so with a palpable skepticism of and an obvious admiration for her subject. It is an act of barbed homage. Whether she is working really big or really small, her painting is characterized by a sense of excess or abundance, that which is liable to register in the colossal size of the large, un-stretched works, or in the dense, almost confectionary application of paint and oil stick of the small-scale paintings. Eschewing the rectilinear formality of the conventionally stretched canvas, her irregularly-shaped, quasi-sculptural supports bring to mind soft, knobby bricks or lopsided cushions. They have an antic quality; their mere form full of personality. Despite its compact, hand-sized scale, the small work is not precious. Indeed, its lack of preciousness can at times seem cavalier. And yet any potential cavalierness in her approach to picture making is immediately belied by a serious and sensuous consideration of what a painting 
\f1\i is 
\f0\i0 or 
\f1\i can 
\f0\i0 be, and its comparatively primitive role in the production and promulgation of images in the 21st Century.\
For her exhibition at Chris Sharp Gallery, Barber has produced a series of eleven small-scale portraits based on photographs of celebrities taken by celebrity photographers and a four slightly larger paintings of rappers with puppies. The celebrity portraits, which are painted on lumpy and uneven 
\f1\i pav\'e9s 
\f0\i0 of canvas about the size of a large iPhone, are framed by white and accompanied by both the celebrity and the photographer\'92s name who shot them (e.g., Frank Ocean by Wolfgang Tillmans, Harry Styles by Tyler Mitchell, Kendrick Lamar by Annie Leibovitz). Depicted in a thick and vivid impasto of oil paint and oil stick, the diminished images possess little to none of the glamour of the original. They seem more like wry tributes than flattering imitations, and yet the attention, care and precision with which they have been wrought inevitably flatter. Thus is the double apotheosis of celebrity compounded by celebrity partially deflated into something\
Chris Sharp Gallery chrissharpgallery.com\
Sophie Barber May 1 to June 12, 2021\
delightfully questionable and weirdly affecting. Meanwhile, the slightly larger portraits of rappers such as Travis Scott and Megan Thee Stallion with puppies are portrayed in the same chunky style on pillow-like canvases. Where the outsized bravado of the entertainer is countered by the humbling presence of the harmless, unassuming companion, both are transmogrified into exuberant interrogations of the whole enterprise of representation.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Ei Arakawa\uc0\u8232 Social Muscle Rehab\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 September 22 - November 27, 2021\
Sunday, October 10, 6pm: Book release for the monograph 
\f1\i Performance People 
\f0\i0 Saturday, October 16, 3pm: Outdoor performance in Cortlandt Alley\
Artists Space is pleased to present 
\f1\i Social Muscle Rehab
\f0\i0 , an exhibition of new work by Ei Arakawa. In his first solo institutional exhibition in New York, Arakawa locates two specific nodes of exploration. The first is the erection of ad-hoc outdoor dining corrals throughout New York City as a means of maintaining sociability through the pandemic, which Arakawa and his collaborator Gela Patashuri interlace with a circulatory system of ocean water transported from his hometown of Fukushima, Japan. The second is the mediated world of professional tennis as particularly evident in the complex public image of its most visible star Naomi Osaka.\
As the show was entirely constructed on-site in the week leading up to its opening, Artists Space posed a few questions to Arakawa concerning the tenets of this endeavor.\

\f1\i Can you say a bit about \'93Social Muscle Rehab\'94 as a title?
\f0\i0 \
I lived in New York for 21 years, but left in 2019. For this Artists Space show, I came back briefly. I was trying to hear the tone of the city for this show. My impression of NYC was more vulnerable and kinder after 2020. Everyone I know is tired of being inside. Many people got used to a non-existent social life. I felt like I needed to move my \'93social muscle\'94 slowly after a year and half. This show and performance propose various kinds of \'93rehab\'94 to be social at the right amount each time.\

\f1\i What struck you as most interesting about New York\'92s outdoor dining corrals?
\f0\i0 \
I didn\'92t know what to call them, and then Jay Sanders started to call them corrals. Maybe he was the only one who called them that. Other people have said outdoor dining, patio, platform, shack, hut, shed, etc. I was just impressed when I saw the variety of corrals in the winter. One had a kotatsu structure. What is the most interesting is the mixture of survival mode, making money while trying to be hospitable. Also this temporal street architecture is regulated by various laws such as 18\'94 perimeter walls, 1:12 slope wheelchair access, or 1\uc0\u8260 4\'94-per-foot pitch raise for gutter tilt. Those laws are for controlling but also the repetition of these buildings in the street expresses the city\'92s spirit. A weird mixture of desiring and being safe.\

\f1\i How do you hope visitors might interact with your exhibition?
\f0\i0 \
I want them to see this corral structure as a portal to multiple real corrals in this city. After you come to the show, maybe you see them elsewhere differently, as an idea, a symbol, and a collective monument. Also this place can be a waiting room for contemplating where we can go next ... I asked Artists Space staff to play their playlists any time during the show. I am also happy that this show will be a site for Segue\'92s weekly poetry readings. Too bad there\'92s no drinking allowed at this moment.\

\f1\i I know you worked with a collaborator to build the structure. What can you tell us about him? How did you meet and what has been your history of collaboration?
\f0\i0 \
Gela Patashuri built this structure by himself (with a little help from me) in only four days. We are both good at building something quickly. He built the Georgian Pavilion once at the Venice Biennale. We\'92ve been working together now for over 10 years. Now my national status has changed from Japanese to American, and he is also trying to become an American citizen from Georgia as well.\

\f1\i Why this water?
\f0\i0 \
This ocean water was sent from my mother and brother who live in Fukushima, Japan. It took 2 months to travel here by ship, and it is sweet to see it since I haven\'92t been able to go back for 2 years now. It\'92s one of the internationally vulnerable waters right now because the Japanese government announced the release of contaminated water from the nuclear disaster into the ocean in 2022. I wanted to make\uc0\u8232 a meeting point where this water meets the current mood of NYC. It\'92s quietly alarming as the sound of water tickles your ears, making you anxious and relaxed at the same time.\

\f1\i What do you imagine might happen on October 16th?
\f0\i0 \
I chose this day because it happens to be Naomi Osaka\'92s birthday. We will do an outdoor group performance in Cortlandt Alley. It will be another form of \'93Social Muscle Rehab.\'94\

\f1\i What about professional tennis, and Naomi Osaka in particular, is interesting or inspiring to you right now?
\f0\i0 \
Naomi Osaka made lots of statements about performance expectations and the mental health of tennis players. My last Cortlandt Alley performance in 2019 was related to taking care of babies, and I am now interested in having children myself in the USA. I want to know more about her dual identities and want to be inspired by her because my children might share this duality.\

\f1\i Are there any other inspirations you might like to share?:
\f0\i0 \
Here are some quotes I am thinking of in relation to this work. They\'92re from Hojoki by Kamo-no-Chomei, which was written in 1212. The original Japanese was translated by Moriguchi and Jenkins:\

\f1\i In our glorious capital the rooftops of the houses of the high and lowly stand in line and seem to jostle for prominence. They appear to have endured for generations, but look more closely - those that have stood for long are few indeed. One year they burn down and the next are raised again. Great houses fade away, to be replaced by lesser ones. Thus too those who live in them. The place itself does not change, nor do the crowds. Even so, of all the many people I once knew only one or two remain. They are born into dusk and die as the day dawns, like that foam upon the water. People die and are born - whence they come and where they go, I do not know. Nor do I understand the transitory homes they build. For whom do they fret themselves? What can be so pleasing to the eye? A house and its master are like the dew that gathers in the morning glory. Which will be the first to pass? Sometimes the dew falls away while the flowers stay. But they will surely wilt in the morning sun. Sometimes the flower shrivels while the dew holds on. But it will not outlive the day.
\f0\i0 \
Bios\
Japanese-born American artist Ei Arakawa\'92s exhibitions and performances are often created through fervent collaborations with artists (and at times their artworks), art historians, and with audience members themselves. His activities undertake the lo-fi mimicry, duplication, and embodiment of cultural forms\'97be they architectural structures, art historical legacies, or organizational systems\'97to reanimate their potentialities anew. Since the early 2000s, Arakawa has been at the forefront of renewing the visibility and advancement of performance art internationally, and has mined both its historical forms (such as Japanese Gutai, New York\'92s Fluxus, Happenings, and Judson Dance Theater, and Viennese Actionism) as well as numerous contemporary manifestations of movement, entertainment, and togetherness. His work, initially appearing spontaneous or improvised, is underpinned by a deep commitment to collaboration as well as addressing the specific contexts of the people for which it is created. Arakawa\'92s first monograph Performance People is co-published with Kunstverein f\'fcr die Rheinlande und Westfalen, D\'fcsseldorf, Germany.\
Gela Patashuri was born in 1974 in Tbilisi, Georgia and trained in the painting department of the Tbilisi State Academy of Arts. A longtime collaborator of Ei Arakwa, Patashuri\'92s work has been shown around the world, with shows at Midway Contemporary Art, Minneapolis; CAC Bretigny, France; Casco, Utrecht, The Netherlands; K\'fcnsthalle Zurich, Switzerland; Museum of Modern Art, Warsaw, Poland; and at the 55th Venice Biennale, Italy, where Patashuri constructed The Georgian Pavilion. He currently lives and works in New York.\
Kim conceives of sound as both a series of conceptual relationships and a form of social currency. Drawing has become a key mode through which she parses these dynamics. Economic, deadpan compositions, her drawings are usually executed in black charcoal. They borrow variously from the structure of musical notation, dynamics, and data visualizations, often representing the spatial and formal qualities of American Sign Language (ASL), her first language. Many of Kim\'92s drawings, including 
\f1\i The Sound of Obsessing 
\f0\i0 (2017) reconfigured as a large-scale mural in the adjacent MIT Media Lab atrium, adopt the symbols 
\f3\i\b P 
\f0\i0\b0 and 
\f3\i\b F
\f0\i0\b0 . In sheet music, these respectively indicate the relational musical dynamics of 
\f1\i piano
\f0\i0 , or soft playing\
and 
\f1\i forte
\f0\i0 , or loud playing\'97to convey Kim\'92s diagrammatic interpretations of affective states and emotions in sound.\
A recent group of charcoal drawings transpose scalar representations of volume with graphic representations of the artist\'92s frustration. Loosely based on sociologist W.E.B. Du Bois\'92s 
\f1\i Data Portraits
\f0\i0 \'97a series of infographics made in 1900 with statistical data demonstrating the un- equitable position of African American populations across the US\'97Kim\'92s hand-drawn graphs chart degrees of what she calls \'93Deaf Rage\'94 vis-\'e0-vis scenarios privileging the needs of hearing individuals. At the List Center, the artist presents a group of twelve recent and new drawings, including a related series that breaks down the various factors involved in a number of personal decisions (\'93Why I Do Not Read Lips,\'94 \'93Why I Work with Sign Language Interpreters\'94) by relative importance in pie chart form. Simultaneously funny and profound, the works pivot on the absurdity of capturing complex choices and their cultural, social, and historical underpinnings in diagrammatic shorthand.\
The List Center exhibition also includes Kim\'92s audio installation 
\f1\i One Week of Lullabies for Roux 
\f0\i0 (2018). For this seven-channel sound work, the artist commissioned a group of friends to create alternative lullabies for her daughter, Roux. Adhering to a set of governing principles including instructions to focus on low frequencies and omit speech or lyrics, these compositions serve to vary what Kim has termed the \'93sound diet\'94 for her child, raised trilingually in ASL, German Sign Language (DGS), and German, and to place equal weight on all three in a culture that tends to ascribe lesser relevance to signed communication.\

\f1\i Christine Sun Kim: Off the Charts 
\f0\i0 is organized by Henriette Huldisch, Chief Curator & Director of Curatorial Affairs, Walker Art Center, Minneapolis (former Director of Exhibitions & Curator, MIT List Visual Arts Center).\
Christine Sun Kim (b. 1980, California; lives and works in Berlin) has exhibited and performed internationally, including at the Whitney Museum, New York (2018); Art Institute of Chicago (2018); San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (2017); De Appel Arts Center, Amsterdam (2017); Rubin Museum of Art, New York (2017); Berlin Biennale (2016); Shanghai Biennale (2016); SoundLive Tokyo (2015, 2013); MoMA PS1, New York (2015) and the Museum of Modern Art, New York (2013), among others. She received her MA Master of Fine Arts in Music/Sound from Bard College and holds degrees from the Rochester Institute of Technology and the School of Visual Arts, New York. Kim is the recipient of a MIT Media Lab Fellowship, a TED Senior Fellowship, and has presented at numerous conferences and symposia.\
Monika Spr\'fcth and Philomene Magers are pleased to present Reefs to Rigs, an exhibition of new sculptures and photographs by Cyprien Gaillard, as well as his most recent film, in a presentation that connects with the Los Angeles gallery\'92s particular site above a future LA Metro station and across from the La Brea Tar Pits. At this intersection of urban infrastructure and prehistoric matter, Gaillard\'92s works emphasize the cyclical, era-spanning interactions between nature and human industry, made visible and palpable through materials encountered across the world.\
On the ground floor of Spr\'fcth Magers, Los Angeles, large wall-based sculptures circumscribe the gallery space, composed of impossibly thin limestone panels atop honeycomb aluminum structures. Swirling constellations of fossils are embedded within each panel, as is the cryptic logo of the New Jersey Transit commuter rail line (with its interlocking \'93N\'94 and \'93J\'94) that connects the state\'92s cities and towns with the New York City metroplex. The works\'92 thick aluminum substrates, which protrude from the wall, lay bare the industrial, fabricated nature of each sculpture, as do inlaid screws, whose placement across one of the stone panels recreates\'97on a one-to-one scale\'97those found around the windows of a New York MTA subway car. This same arrangement is materialized in pink coral inlay in several other panels.\
These machine-made elements of Gaillard\'92s new sculptures contrast with the natural aura of the stone itself, which ranges from smoky black to yellow-gold to delicate pink, and whose fossils testify to the existence of an ancient ocean bed at their original quarry sites across what is now considered Asia. Colorful and vibrant in their fossilized patterns, the limestone veneers seem to grow outward from the wall like a layer of sediment atop the aluminum panels, mimicking a natural growth overtaking an industrial ground. The title of the exhibition, 
\f1\i Reefs to Rigs, i
\f0\i0 s a nod to the long-running project Rigs to Reefs, which leaves decommissioned oil rigs intact so that they might harbor new layers of coral and other forms of marine life. By flipping the phrase, Gaillard in turn imagines a cyclical reversal of this purportedly beneficial, but politically fraught, program.\
The pulsing beat of steel drums urges visitors upstairs to encounter 
\f1\i Ocean II Ocean 
\f0\i0 (2019), Gaillard\'92s film that premiered last year in the 58th Venice Biennale. The film is divided into two main sections that follow upon each other in an infinite loop. In the first, Gaillard\'92s camera focuses on fossils encrusted in the underground walls of metro stations in Russia and the former Soviet Bloc, such as Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Kiev, Tblisi, and Berlin. Constructed by the Communist Regime as a propaganda tool to celebrate Soviet power and ingenuity, the stations are clad in marble quarried from various Soviet mountain ranges. As in Gaillard\'92s new sculptures, the fossils speak to the prehistoric, watery histories of the sites that generated these materials; brought together from so many different places and periods, they coexist in these final, politically loaded locations.\
The other half of Ocean II Ocean follows MTA subway cars on a journey across tracks, through bridges, onto barges, and then out to sea, ceremoniously dumped into the Atlantic Ocean in an effort to benefit aquatic life\'97glimpses of an artificial reefing program whose goals in many ways mirror those of Rigs to Reefs. Diving below the water\'92s surface, the camera captures marine animals moving among the steel carriages. Moreover, the frenetic energy of the film\'92s soundtrack, produced by Gaillard from samples of recordings of a steel pan orchestra, connects these stainless steel carcasses with the percussive sound of steel, as if its vibrations might be emanating from the train cars themselves.\
Known for their carnivalesque echoes, steel pans are historically from Trinidad and Tobago and traditionally made from discarded oil barrels, whose original contents relate both to the creation of fossil fuel and to the contemporary pollution and demise of underwater life. Connecting 
\f1\i Ocean II Ocean\'92s 
\f0\i0 two segments is a lush, albeit deceptive, vortex that is revealed to be a stainless steel New York public toilet, mid-flush. Its flowing movements link the work\'92s segments and avert any breakage in sound or image, emphasizing the cyclical nature not only of Gaillard\'92s film, but also of the shifting cycles of draining and rising that the world\'92s oceans have experienced and continue to undergo.\
In a series of new Polaroid diptychs, Gaillard pairs views of public restrooms with double-exposed compositions shot in Stockholm that extend the layered impulses of the film and sculptures. 
\f1\i Glimpses of Sea God 
\f0\i0 (Sj\'f6guden), a public sculpture by the Swedish artist Carl Milles, meld with images of the Stockholm underground, creating two layers of visual sedimentation. The subway stations\'92 staircases and platforms seem to stream in and out of the sea monster\'92s mouth.\
Connected both thematically and materially, Gaillard\'92s film and sculptures make apparent the recurring, tidal movements both of oceans and of the earth\'92s interactions with human history. Geology is corrupted, brought down to a mundane urban context, and elements are displaced and transformed over time. Water and shells, through fossilization, naturally become stone and fuel; which are in turn carved and pumped out of the earth via human extraction and technology; only to be shipped around the world and then returned to a subterranean existence in the walls of subway stations and the ocean floor. At the same time, Gaillard\'92s new bodies of work look past the confines of human time frames toward the deep time of geological consciousness, considering a past that extends far beyond human existence, and perhaps a future that does as well.\
In 
\f1\i Waves and Waves, 
\f0\i0 longtime friends and artists Rochelle Goldberg and Rebecca Brewer engage a dialogue between their respective practices, with their distinct ideas unfolding in a shared space for the first time. The project sees both artists explore our assumptions about ecology and human life. Brewer's recent textile works recall dream-like perceptions\'97with a permeability that suggests translation, exchange and the hallucinatory\'97seen here alongside new paintings that stem from an early memory of being carried out to sea on a wave. Goldberg's sculptural works evoke material transitions, tactility and the traces that contact leaves on human bodies, landscapes and other living beings. Evocative of a drowned world, the exhibition engages the sensorial, emotional and perceptual experience of submergence.\
Throughout the gallery, Brewer has suspended a series of mesh-like silk and wool textile works. Bearing visual elements often associated with therapeutic art\'97expressionistic marks suggesting destructive energies, eruptions, and their various residues\'97these works appear purely formal at first glance but reveal a litany of personal notations, cryptic linguistic fragments and other detritus. As with Brewer\'92s other works in the exhibition, these pieces grapple with the relationship between sensation and systems of intelligence\'97both those stemming from human life and those endemic to plants, animals and the broader biosphere. A pair of new paintings in the show evoke a fragmented world of flora and fauna\'97frogs, nautilus shells, seaweed\'97alongside traces of its decline\'97 suggesting an ocean marred by garbage and a diminishing aquatic habitat. These works are accompanied by embossed abstractions on vellum, framed by worn, pearlescent resin that recalls ocean flotsam and glistening algae. Fecundity, garishness, aggression, and the refusal of legibility pervade Brewer\'92s works for 
\f1\i Waves and Waves, 
\f0\i0 in which emotional dysregulation and incoherent memory are tangled in oceanic metaphors.\
In 
\f1\i For Every Living Carcass, 
\f0\i0 Goldberg likewise engages a submerged oceanic realm, presenting a fleet of human-scaled fish forms, both fleshless and animate. Rendered in ceramic and steel, these ghost-like species upend the relationship between predator and prey, a reminder that current patterns of consumption and declining ocean life presage a precarious future. Corporeality, extinction and the passage of time are also central to Goldberg\'92s 
\f1\i Intralocutors, 
\f0\i0 but through a starkly different lens. Comprised of sculptures that bring together unexpected combinations of materials\'97from lost-wax bronze casting to luminescent fiber optics\'97these works reframe the legacy of Mary of Egypt. Considered a sexual deviant according to fourth-century moral law, Mary turned away from the temptations of the carnal and material to pursue a life of scarcity in the desert. In these works, Goldberg posits Mary as a self- liberated and transcendental figure rather than a merely penitent one, one whose body and environment would eventually become one and the same. In reshaping this narrative, Goldberg highlights the ways in which our understanding of life\'97and how we think\
about bodily decay, survival and our relationship to the tactile world\'97is always shifting, tethered to larger forces, both ecological and cultural.\
Stripped to the core, an engine offers an open vision of its intestines; an intricate composition of tubes and mechanical components morphing into vegetal and ornamental patterns. A soft ocean like tongue invites participation into the depth of cyborgian bowels abiding in self- exploration and onanism. Hands palpating, fingers and protuberances insinuating - a feeling of constriction and claustrophobia emanate.\
The symbolically charged shapes of octagon and circle become dramatized peepholes through which autonomous machines stare back, in an expression of paralyzed sexual energy and/or the promise of infinite mobility as realized through the release of political agency.\
Filled with body enhancing instruments, the gym is a stage for self-development and pose, an idealized arena to seek a rational and formalized vehicle. Overtly androgynous athletes pursue an inaccessible growth, lingering in narcissism and self-contemplation is the only sustainable action.\
Solidified in hand stitched embroideries, bodies bursts from their figurative limitations, abandoning themselves to the irresistible merge with machine. A haptic appetite in a conflicted compulsion to take control while indulging in automation. Polished interiors of empty electrical cars become deserted landscapes; smooth surfaces which only vaguely remember the shapes of the individuals that once inhabited them. Beautiful creatures self- driving toward the impending failure of the progress they perpetually stand for.\
The white-spotted puffer fish (
\f1\i Torquigener albomaculosus) 
\f0\i0 found off the coast of Japan occupies itself with making a circular pattern on the sea floor. It burrows and scurries around to make a temporary base in the sand, astonishingly accurate in its geometry, hoping for the attention of another puffer fish intrigued by such a display. Once complete, the fish has to tend to it continuously, as the moving tide will gradually wear away at the sandy ridges and even out the troughs, until all signs have vanished along with the hopes of meeting another. The fish dedicates itself to its small construction site, and ignores the surrounding void. There is no boundary \'97 no wall \'97 between this little perimeter of calm and the vast ocean. This is eternity for the fish, because it could never swim far enough to know that all the oceans are connected.\
There is a limit to how we as human beings can understand our place in time. We have our understanding of \'91now\'92, forever presenting itself yet never remaining still for us to be aware before it\'92s already moved on. How do we fathom how this \'91now\'92 fits into the grand idea of \'91time\'92? We remember what happened yesterday and plan for tomorrow. We are told our birthday and can guess what will be our last decade. We read books about history. We carbon date. Telescopes look to the farthest reaches of the known universe, to where we will go to escape a messy planet. The irony of searching deeper into this abyss for a solution, is that the further we look, the further into the past we\'92re seeing. We run theoretical models of our beginnings to predict how this will all end, give or take a few million years. Giant telescopes are perched upon mountains, located far away from light-polluting cities, meaning that to even begin looking for a way out we are already leaving civilisation behind. For the time being we have no choice but to stay, wishing upon stars we increasingly can\'92t see.\
The movement of time is rarely perceived as slow but rather sudden, because the realisation of change only occurs upon recognition of a difference. And by definition, these changes have to be significantly different enough from the present. They can be as significant as tracing Homo sapiens through our evolutionary branch to a different species, or as significant as throwing out leftovers from the fridge because they\'92re from Sunday and it\'92s Thursday, and that means they\'92re five days old not two.\
Hypothetically, if the little puffer fish could swim far enough, setting off in one direction around the globe it would eventually meet up again at the same point. All signs of its creation would now be gone, eroded by the shifting tide. How would the fish understand that the floor comes back around to meet itself? Similarly, what if time did not have a beginning and an end but looped in this way? Harold Ramis\'92 
\f1\i Groundhog\'92s Day 
\f0\i0 (1993) depicts a world in which a \'91short\'92 loop has comedic results, starting over every morning, conveniently with previous memory still intact. The moral in 
\f1\i Groundhog\'92s Day 
\f0\i0 is that we can learn from our mistakes, but only if we still remember them. But what if this time loop was longer than memory, generations, or recorded history? And that time is constantly writing over itself, slowly churning, erasing all identifiable marks of the past? A time loop longer than species, longer than the lifespan of the suns and planets themselves?\
The fish that once lived, becomes sediment on the seabed, written over by new matter and later dredged to the surface to be reincarnated as plastic. In 2018 researchers found a plastic bag in the Mariana Trench, the deepest point on the surface of the planet. Perhaps the bag had been trying to return itself, prevented however by the vast lifespan of its current incarnation, far greater than any of its previous lives. The metaphor of something being a drop in the ocean would apply here, except the amount of drops are such that they\'92ve already seeped their way into our diet. In the past few years recent surveys have shown nearly all sea salt sold in UK supermarkets contains microplastics. I switched to buying Himalayan rock salt, as I figured the rock being mined is older than humankind and therefore would contain no plastic. It formed along the edge of the super continent Gondawanaland approximately 600 \'96 450 million years ago, predating the earliest dinosaurs by 200 million years.\
Magasin III Museum & Foundation for Contemporary Art in Stockholm is pleased to announce 
\f1\i Ocean and Caffeine 
\f0\i0 by Cosima von Bonin, the third exhibition in its permanent satellite space in Jaffa, greater Tel Aviv since it opened in January 2018. The solo exhibition will feature seven works by von Bonin, created between 2001 and 2018, and will allow a profound review of the artist\'92s long- term fascination with the ocean, the different life forms that inhabit it and the relationships between those two and human beings.\
Cosima von Bonin is an internationally-renowned German artist. She was born in 1962 in Mombasa, Kenya, raised in Austria, and has lived for decades in Cologne, Germany. von Bonin is known for her large-scale, mixed-media installations that frequently incorporate sculpture, textile \'93paintings\'94 and sound, as well as film, video and performance. She is inspired by popular and vernacular culture, folk art, fashion, hip-hop, techno and personal experiences. Although in first glance it might look like an amusement park, von Bonin works oscillate between humor and darkness, playfulness and urgency, fantasy and terrifying reality.\

\f1\i Ocean and Caffeine
\f0\i0 , curated by Karmit Galili from Magasin III Jaffa, features seven works by von Bonin, four of which are part of Magasin III collection. 
\f1\i Item 
\f0\i0 (2001), is a 11 meter long boat, dressed in an impressive uniform cover. This work was produced especially for Magasin III\'92s 2001 exhibition 
\f1\i Free Port
\f0\i0 . 
\f1\i Seasons in the Abyss 
\f0\i0 (2006) features an octopus, a recurring sea creature in von Bonin\'92s work, made of fabric and glass. 
\f1\i Deprionen, A Voyage to the Sea, 
\f0\i0 2006 is a \'93textile painting\'94 3.19 meters long and 3.57 meters wide. 
\f1\i HERMIT CRAB IN FAKE ROY\'c8RE & MVO\'92S HERMIT CRAB [FAKE ROY\'c8RE] 
\f0\i0 (2010), this work, accompanied by music written by Moritz von Oswald, features another sea creature pleasantly seated on a chair that was originally designed by the famous interior designer Jean Roy\'e8re, as part of a set of whimsical garden furniture for Princess Shahnaz, daughter of the Shah of Iran in 1958. 
\f1\i WHAT IF IT BARKS 5 (PETITE VERSION WITH BLUE UKULELE) 
\f0\i0 2018, 
\f1\i WHAT IF IT BARKS 6 (PETITE VERSION WITH BLACK UKULELE) 
\f0\i0 2018 and 
\f1\i WHAT IF IT BARKS 7 (COFFEE POT VERSION)
\f0\i0 , 2018, were all created last year, and continue the artist\'92s exploration of marine motifs, such as dressed up mackerels and surfing boards.\

\f1\i \'93Ocean and Caffeine is a wonderful and unusual opportunity for local and international audience to view almost 20 years in an amazing artist body of work and creation. It is also both von Bonin\'92s first exhibition in Israel and the first time that Magasin III Jaffa is showing works from our comprehensive museum collection\'94, 
\f0\i0 says Karmit Galili.\
Outside seating: You\'92ll get your coffee in a pot!\
It started with the traditional, slightly watery filter-coffee. I don\'92t remember my first sip, but it was the beginning of a lifelong friendship, which I still enjoy. My second viral memory of coffee takes me back to biology class with Mr. Strunk. While discussing photosynthesis at very great length, he consumed roughly three entire six-packs of Ferrero Pocket Coffee. Every Tuesday I was worried he would die in class: Heart attack, caused by massive consumption of coffee- Oh God and Ha!: Yet another message in my spam folder: I won an automatic coffee machine. Could it be a Senseo coffee maker? In 2003 (when the first ones were introduced) I was almost seduced by means of this particular concoction, but cut it off at the last moment \'96 and this made sense: Sex for coffee: No. It was much later \'96 I was already studying at this point \'96 that I was struck by a wave that connected my interests with the drink: Latte Art: So-called Baristas embellished almost every foam of every cappuccino I drank with delicate little pattern: I was directly caught up in the third coffee wave, having completely skipped the second one. I don\'92t really want to remember the details of this second wave, because: Grown men ordered the following: A Latte, please! The pronounciation of Latte Machiatto hadn\'92t really been determined then on a general level. (In the age of #METOO there is no longer a problem. So- order!) I guess you would like to put your cup back on its saucer, at this point \'97 but guess what: Cosima von Bonin called her exhibition `Ocean and Caffeine\'92, thus connecting two important things: The essence of coffee and the place where one should ideally have it: At the seaside. And a pot, which reminds me \'96 every morning \'96 of my lasting friendship, is in the exhibition space and tops everything that was before in a rousing convergence of brown liquids. In this spirit:\
Have a lovely Cup or Jug!\
In the great vastness of the Pacific Ocean, the tiny island countries are barely noticeable on the map. One of these islands is the Republic of Kiribati, consisting of 33 paradise atolls with wonderful beaches. However, the rising ocean level caused by climate change is threatening the existence of Kiribati. The islands are in danger of disappearing into the Pacific Ocean forever.\
The Republic of Kiribati Pavilion at the 58th International Art Exhibition \'96 La Biennale di Venezia reflects the endangered existence of the island country of Kiribati and the time we live in. According to Plato, in contrast to the impermanent nature of our world and objects within our world, forms and ideas are permanent. In the Kiribati Pavilion, you can see interlaced group artworks by 29 artists from different generation and genres of art. The presented art genres are: video, photography, interactive animation, performance, ready-made and installation. The artistic elements used in the artworks include sound, colour, light, space and material. The artist Kaeka Michael Betero uses photography and videos to represent the threat to homes and inhabitants. His authentic and genuine approach shows reality as it is. The Kairaken Betio Group uses dance to communicate their passion for life, dance and tradition. The elements of their performance are rooted in tradition in connection to modern performance approaches. Daniela Danica Tepes, a visual artist, connects all the artworks into an interactive installation in the form of a room in a Kiribati house, where the threat of inundation is ever present as the waves have already covered more than half of the window height. The room is filled with traditional items used by Kiribati inhabitants. The interactive installation turns on when visitors enter the room. As they move around the exhibition space, they awaken animated otherworldly dancers who mimic the visitors\'92 movements. This art project discusses the issue of climate change and is designed as a reflection between the artwork, human presence and space.\
Massimo De Carlo London is pleased to present 
\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole, 
\f0\i0 an exhibition by the New York based American artist Jamian Juliano-Villani. 
\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole 
\f0\i0 alludes to a friend, most likely in grade school, who makes a violently irrational suggestion, such as killing a bully or a friend. That suggestion is the vortex of the show.\

\f1\i Overtaci, 
\f0\i0 a deer-cum-human figure, finds its origin from the obsessive work of a Danish outsider artist, Ovartaci. Ovartaci spent majority of her life as a patient mainly hidden in the Risskov Psychiatric Hospital in Aarhus, Denmark. Juliano-Villani reimagines the artist\'92s muse as a teenage American lacrosse player framed by a parents\'92 camera lens. The stale obsessive humanoid is frozen in activity, with the athletic shorts rolled up all the way up.\
When a veteran retires they are usually given a ceremonial water salute with firehoses and jets, saluting them for their work. In two paintings, 
\f1\i Big Amy 
\f0\i0 and one small - 
\f1\i Little Amy, 
\f0\i0 a mirage vision of Amy Winehouse as a child is airbrushed in a desert, an ocean, being saluted by dolphins and lizards. The lowly beach style of boardwalk t-shirts and trinkets is used to memorialize Amy. She is a blip of a cheap angel in British culture.\

\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole 
\f0\i0 focuses on banal drama. There is irrational and melodramatic behaviour; a guilty dog with a bagel knife in his mouth, the butoh dancer Kazuo Ohno reminiscing over old CDs, and a naive monster truck mural trying to break out of the facade of the gallery. This is Juliano-Villani\'92s second show with the gallery.\
Massimo De Carlo London is pleased to present 
\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole, 
\f0\i0 an exhibition by the New York based American artist Jamian Juliano-Villani. 
\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole 
\f0\i0 alludes to a friend, most likely in grade school, who makes a violently irrational suggestion, such as killing a bully or a friend. That suggestion is the vortex of the show.\

\f1\i Overtaci, 
\f0\i0 a deer-cum-human figure, finds its origin from the obsessive work of a Danish outsider artist, Ovartaci. Ovartaci spent majority of her life as a patient mainly hidden in the Risskov Psychiatric Hospital in Aarhus, Denmark. Juliano-Villani reimagines the artist\'92s muse as a teenage American lacrosse player framed by a parents\'92 camera lens. The stale obsessive humanoid is frozen in activity, with the athletic shorts rolled up all the way up.\
When a veteran retires they are usually given a ceremonial water salute with firehoses and jets, saluting them for their work. In two paintings, 
\f1\i Big Amy 
\f0\i0 and one small - 
\f1\i Little Amy, 
\f0\i0 a mirage vision of Amy Winehouse as a child is airbrushed in a desert, an ocean, being saluted by dolphins and lizards. The lowly beach style of boardwalk t-shirts and trinkets is used to memorialize Amy. She is a blip of a cheap angel in British culture.\

\f1\i Let\'92s Kill Nicole 
\f0\i0 focuses on banal drama. There is irrational and melodramatic behaviour; a guilty dog with a bagel knife in his mouth, the butoh dancer Kazuo Ohno reminiscing over old CDs, and a naive monster truck mural trying to break out of the facade of the gallery. This is Juliano-Villani\'92s second show with the gallery.\
Taka Ishii Gallery is pleased to present \'93Reception,\'94 an exhibition of works by Yuki Kimura. Marking the artist\'92s eighth solo presentation with the gallery since her first showing in 1995, the exhibition features a new installation comprised of five three-dimensional works.\

\f1\i The Taka Ishii Gallery Roppongi space with its built-in counter table made of solid ebony, black mortar floor, L-shaped space with natural light streaming in from the back, and large potted plants outside...This is an attempt to repeat this very space within the space itself. The miniature of the counter table that has respectively been reduced to scales of 75%, 50%, and 25% are of the same quality as the original, and thus may suggest a completely different functionality. Or perhaps it could be regarded as a series of processes by which the table becomes a symbolic object that condenses space and even meaning each time it is reduced. I anticipate that through this perspective illusion, the entire room will appear to have more depth than usual, and feel more difficult to approach.
\f0\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 The exhibition 
\f1\i\b0 Moana Don\'92t Cry 
\f2\i0\b approaches the ocean from a number of angles.\
The Pacific is a vast liquid continent that connects hundreds of cultural groups with a robust spiritual thread: for indigenous islanders, Te Moana- nui-a-Kiwa is an ancestral home that both sustains and provides them with a fluid identity, as it did for ancient civilisations. Conversely, daily media coverage of environmental degradation around the world inundates our lives with news about melting ice sheets and unmanageable levels of sea plastic pollution. We hear reports of coral bleaching and underwater fracking\
for gas and oil that threatens marine species. Alongside the impact of ocean acidification, we are made aware of rising water levels, which endanger the very existence of a few Pacific nations.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Trouble in the moana is not new; history tells us that the Pacific endured 1,054 nuclear tests performed by the USA and France between 1945 and 1992. Colonial notions of the region as remote and isolated favoured military projects in the name of security, employing islands as strategic places for unnoticed tests.1 Faced with these past and present threats to ocean life, this exhibition addresses our need to protect life as kaitiaki (guardians) with a duty of care\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 for the planet entrusted to us.\uc0\u8232 An ontological turn connected to indigenous spirituality and ways of doing becomes paramount,\u8232 to counter narratives of loss articulated by the colonial logic of dispossession.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 1 Arriola, Theresa. S
\f1\i ecuring Nature: Militarisation, Indigeneity and the Environment in the Northern Mariana Islands
\f0\i0 , University of California, Los Angeles, USA. Paper presented at NAISA conference, University of Waikato, 27 June 2019.\
1\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 The peaceful waters\
Portuguese navigator Fern\'e3o\uc0\u8232 de Magalh\'e3es coined the name \'91Pacific Ocean\'92 in 1520, during the voyage of discovery he undertook\u8232 by appointment of King Charles I\u8232 of Spain to find a passage between the Atlantic Ocean and the ocean previously known as the Southern Sea (Mar del Sur). Magalh\'e3es changed the southern reference to \'91Pac\'edfic\'92 after coming upon the peaceful waters that provided relief after sailing the intemperate Atlantic currents that took part of his fleet. Located in the southern tip of South America on\u8232 the present-day border between Argentina and Chile, the discovered passage became known as the 
\f1\i\b0 Strait of Magellan.
\f2\i0\b \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 This period of intense European imperial expansion affected Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa as it also transformed the Americas. Walter Mignolo suggests that the notion of cultures as we know them today is a by-product of the making of the modern colonial world.2 He argues that \'93there were no \'91Indians\'92 in the Americas until the arrival of\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Spaniards. Of course, there were people that identified themselves with names, but there were not \'91Indians\'92... Coloniality of power emerged in this original organization of the modern-colonial world.\'94\
Unfortunately, coloniality is not exclusively a question of the past, as the economic impulse that spearheaded those voyages of discovery heavily lingers in the present. Pacific islanders and indigenous groups in the Americas alike continue to suffer from the environmental calamities caused by harmful extractive models.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Among the most proactive approaches to mitigating environmental damage are initiatives that establish legal responsibilities to prevent progressive deterioration. Researcher and artist Nabil Ahmed, founder of Inter-Pacific Ring Tribunal, INTERPRT, advances the notion of environmental crime.3 His project uses spatial analysis to justify the adoption of ecocide as\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 an international crime, by gathering evidence on long-term conflicts within the Pacific, most precisely in West Papua.\
Migration: then and now\
Although migration is as old as human history, distressing news of migrants and refugees packed aboard dangerously tight boats in search of a better life seems designed to create apprehension.\
In 
\f1\i\b0 Moana Don\'92t Cry
\f2\i0\b , we present\uc0\u8232 two films that draw from such concern, both associated with\u8232 the political conditioning of the\u8232 Cold War hangover. 
\f1\i\b0 The Island,\uc0\u8232 
\f2\i0\b by Tuan Andrew Nguyen, revisits\uc0\u8232 the Vietnamese exodus at the\u8232 end of the American War, a tale of dispossession and landlessness\u8232 in the midst of tropical paradise.\u8232 A documentary of a performance orchestrated by Francis Al\'ffs enacts the will to unite what the sea of ideology separated since the Cuban revolution split the Caribbean nation from its capitalist neighbours in Florida.\
While sprouting nationalists are unable to address the needs of\uc0\u8232 all, and link the cause and effect\u8232 of economic disparities, waves\u8232 of migrants on the move seeking\u8232 a safer place to live are causing worldwide alarm. However, scientists\
and policy makers know that in\uc0\u8232 light of increasing climate chaos\u8232 and insecurity, migration is likely\u8232 to grow dramatically. Moreover, the nations that have had least impact on climate change are those who will see their homeland disappear under the floods. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern declared\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 a state of emergency in relation\uc0\u8232 to climate change in the region at the last two annual Pacific Islands Forums, where it was described as the second biggest threat to security in the Pacific. Additionally, during her inaugural UN address, Ardern said: \'93Rising water levels is a reality, extreme weather not a theory, loss of marine life an everyday occurrence, against speculations by climate deniers.\'944\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 From times immemorial, our oceans have been the stage of countless migrations, conquests and exile,\uc0\u8232 as well as providing a battlefield\
for territorial combats, while lying as silent witnesses of the Middle Passage and other tragedies.\
At the same time, coastal communities across the planet acknowledge the ocean as a\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 2 Mignolo, Walter. 
\f1\i The Darker Side of Western Modernity, Global Futures, Decolonial Options
\f0\i0 , Duke University Press, 2011, p.221.\uc0\u8232 3 INTERPRT, 2017\'962019 http://www.interprt.org/. Visited on 28 August 2019.\
4 Full text: PM\'92s speech to the United Nations https://www.newsroom.co.nz/2018/09/27/256105/full-text-pms- speech-to-the-united-nations. Visited on 10 August 2019.\
Exhibition guide V2 - with Kahu updates.indd 2-3\
30/10/2019\
10:57:43 AM\
23\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 nurturing entity connected to femininity and motherhood, the fundamental source of life. This metaphor doubles as a scientific fact, given that the oceans not only feed us but also produce most of\uc0\u8232 the oxygen we breathe. Within the moana, motherhood and breathing collapse into the fundamental agents necessary for the perpetuation of the species, calling us to radical action through relational political ecologies.\
The various names for the sea across cultures express the identification of spiritual entities\uc0\u8232 with the blue waters. Whether it is Tangaroa for M\u97 \u772 ori, Agw\'e9 in Haiti, K\u97 \u772 -moho-ali\'91i in Hawai\'91i, Aman Sinaya in the Philippines, Iemoja in West Africa or Tagaloa in Samoa, most seaside peoples pay respect to deities representing the oceans, thus expressing an integrated worldview where humans and nature are one.\
Philosopher Carl Mika establishes a parallel between two notions that in te reo are encapsulated by one word: wai. Seizing its double meaning as water and who (what), his notion of \'91worldedness\'92 summarises a world where all things are a \'91who\'92 rather\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 than a \'91what\'92, in the sense that they all have the deeply implicated essence of the world.5\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Gabriela Salgado\
Artistic Director, Te Tuhi August 2019\
List of works\
Francis Al\'ffs\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0 \cf0 Bridge / Puente
\f2\i0\b , 2006\uc0\u8232 Havana, Cuba / Key West, FL, USA single-screen film\u8232 23 min 15 sec\
Borders have been a recurrent topic of inquiry for Francis Al\'ffs.\uc0\u8232 In 
\f1\i\b0 Bridge / Puente
\f2\i0\b , the artist\uc0\u8232 returns to the staging of poetic actions to enact the impossible:\
a choreographed line of fishing boats departing from Havana and the Florida Keys were set to meet\uc0\u8232 at a point in the horizon to form a bridge of sorts. Thus, the action was designed as a metaphor to negate the separation between Cuba and the USA, the last bastion of Cold War politics. However, the bridge did not fully materialise, with the Caribbean Sea waters remaining a ninety miles\'92 rift between families, communities and nations, given uneven engagement and purposeful miscommunication necessary to avoid sanctions.\

\f1\i\b0 Bridge / Puente 
\f2\i0\b recalls his earlier work 
\f1\i\b0 The Loop 
\f2\i0\b commissioned by\uc0\u8232 the Mexico\'96USA art project INSITE in 1997. Upon refusing to produce a site-specific work on the border zone\
between San Diego and Tijuana, Al\'ffs instead employed his artist fee in travelling around the world to elude the crossing.\
As relevant today as it was then, B
\f1\i\b0 ridge / Puente, 
\f2\i0\b and other works performed in Jerusalem and the Gibraltar strait, interrogate who has the right to cross national borders, a question at the centre of international disputes.\
Charlotte Graham\

\f1\i\b0 Whakawaikawa Moana/Acidic Oceans
\f2\i0\b , 2017\'9619\uc0\u8232 wall-based mirror units and text installation\

\f1\i\b0 Whakawaikawa Moana 
\f2\i0\b comes\uc0\u8232 from the ancestral p\u117 \u772 r\u97 \u772 kau of Pare Hauraki, of the Hauraki/ Coromandel Peninsula area, descended from Whanaunga. Hinerehia is the artist\'92s t\u105 \u772 puna and a t\u117 \u772 rehu (fairy spirit) who holds ethereal qualities and non-solid energy. As passed on by Ng\u97 \u772 ti Whanaunga and Ng\u97 \u772 ti Paoa ancestral narratives, Hinerehia\u8232 was forced to weave in darkness\u8232 but by trickery of the tohunga she\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 5 Mika, Carl. Transfiguring the flow of Maori identity: Deep implicancy. In International symposium: 
\f1\i Soot breath: On land, law and bodies
\f0\i0 , held at Goldsmiths, University of London, United Kingdom, 2019.\
Exhibition guide V2 - with Kahu updates.indd 4-5\
30/10/2019\
10:57:43 AM\
45\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 continued through daylight, bringing the art of weaving to the female line of her people, Pare Hauraki.\
The public are encouraged to swivel the circular mirrors in the installation revealing words on both sides, and producing different reflections under the zenithal lighting. The words represent oppositions, such as AO (world)-OA (ocean acidification), light-dark, alkaline-acidic, changing meaning depending on the angle\
of perception, and referring to the t\uc0\u105 \u772 puna and the multidirectional power of the winds\'97Hauraki meaning northern winds.\
Ioane Ioane\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0 \cf0 Va\'91aalo Savaii
\f2\i0\b , 2019\uc0\u8232 traditional S\u97 \u772 moan canoe by Mulitalo Malu Tautua (S\u97 \u772 moa) and Ioane Ioane supported by Whitespace Contemporary Art, Auckland\

\f1\i\b0 Tradition is the backbone or core to contemporary practices in my work as a Pacific islander. The makeup\uc0\u8232 of the vaa\'91alo is a metaphor for the makeup of a person: each bit of the vaa\'92alo is from nature (no nails, wire, etc.) and self-made by the carver. Therein lies the makeup of a person.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 O le malaga malosi tele / A Very Strong Journey
\f2\i0\b , 2019\uc0\u8232 18 min 41 sec\u8232 filmed and directed by Ioane Ioane additional filming: Sila Ioane editing: Tomek Bogdanowicz soundtrack: Ioane Ioane\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Special thanks to: Tanea Heke and Dr Steven Ratuva\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\fs32 \cf0 Moana Don\'92t Cry, 
\f2\i0\b 2019\uc0\u8232 performance ritual by Ioane Ioane, Sila Ioane and Shannon Ioane costume design by Rosanna Raymond recorded on 31 August 2019 during the opening of 
\f1\i\b0 Moana Don\'92t Cry\uc0\u8232 
\f2\i0\b filmed by Tomek Bogdanowicz, Ella Ryborz and P\uc0\u97 \u772 k\u101 \u772  Salmon\u8232 edited by Ioane Ioane\u8232 commissioned by Te Tuhi, Auckland\

\f1\i\b0 Sila is the sails of the Va\'91a, Shannon is the constellations of stars.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 I am the Va\'91a.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 My daughter and niece have journeyed a very long strong path.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 Sila re-enchanted her life back to her roots by leaving London, where she previously lived. Shannon\'92s re-enchantment back to her roots occurred recently in S\uc0\u97 \u772 moa, where she got the malu (traditional woman\'92s tattoo), becoming the first
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 female in our family to do so. Our body is a Va\'91a.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 Pe\'91a or male tatau contains the sails, and the star constellations that navigate the Va\'91a on its path across uncertain oceans are represented in the malu (female tatau).
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 The girls will be pouring water\uc0\u8232 into the va\'91aalo using ava bowls (ava bowls of humanity). Like in Japanese teaism tradition, the kava ceremony introduces the idea that we are defined by our sense of proportion to the universe. Healing beauty comes with simplicity among the sordid facts of everyday existence.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 This existence is the moana within and of us.
\f2\i0\b \
Knitlab\

\f1\i\b0 Te Muri Waters
\f2\i0\b , 2019\uc0\u8232 suspended light sculptures\u8232 knitted fabric of monofilament, copper wire and retroreflective ribbon interlaced with fibre-\u8232 optic strands, macrocarpa and p\u111 \u772 hutukawa housing and 50W colour-changing LED devices commissioned by Te Tuhi, Auckland\

\f1\i\b0 Te Muri Waters 
\f2\i0\b consists of three soft sculptures hanging from the ceiling forming a mesmerising ensemble of hypnotic luminescence. Evoking an underwater experience, the works invite us to turn on meditative appreciation as an antidote to the despair of ecological collapse.\
Knitlab member HyunJin Yun wove her pieces by visualising the waves she observed at Te Muri Beach, while Robin de Haan enmeshed light sequences in the knitted sculptures to infuse them with tidal rhythms and the pace of breathing.\
Inspired by the Te Muri Beach landscape, the three sculptures summon different water formations: the estuary, the bay and the reef, transforming our experience of the gallery space into a vision made\
of twinkling water surfaces under the summer sun, where layers of seawater invite us to explore the dim heart of the vast ocean.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Exhibition guide V2 - with Kahu updates.indd 6-7\
30/10/2019\
10:57:43 AM\
67\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Graeme Atkins, Alex Monteith, Natalie Robertson, Kahurangiariki Smith and Aroha Yates-Smith\uc0\u8232 
\f1\i\b0 Te rerenga p\uc0\u111 \u772 uri o nga parawhenua ki Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa
\f2\i0\b , 2019 multi-channel video installation commissioned by Te Tuhi, Auckland, with support from Auckland University of Technology and University of Auckland\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0 \cf0 Te rerenga o Waiorongomai ki uta, ki Waiapu ki tai\'97The journey of Waiorongomai inland to Waiapu at the coast
\f2\i0\b , 2019\
four-channel video projection 16 min 17 sec\

\f1\i\b0 Ko te kongakonga pakohe\'97Mudstone crumbled into fragments
\f2\i0\b , 2019\uc0\u8232 video\u8232 14 min 32 sec\

\f1\i\b0 Te rerenga p\uc0\u111 \u772 uri o nga parawhenua ki Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa 
\f2\i0\b (
\f1\i\b0 The desolate journey of sediment to\uc0\u8232 Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa\'97the Pacific Ocean
\f2\i0\b ) is a suite of new video works created collaboratively. Graeme Atkins lives on the lower reaches\
of the Waiapu River and Natalie Robertson is a trustee of wh\uc0\u97 \u772 nau land there. Mass erosion caused over the past century has had a devastating impact on the coast and\
ocean. Years ago, Atkins\'97a Te Papa Atawhai Department of Conservation ranger\'97had the vision to video the eroding gullies at Waiorongomai from the air to show the scale of erosion and how it impacts downstream.\
The artists followed the water flow from mist, rains and streams down the river to the moana\'97the ocean. Cinematographer Sam Britten began recording on Armistice Day, November 11, 2018. Intrigued by the fragility of the rocks, Atkins, Alex Monteith, and Robertson returned to Waiorongomai to make detailed studies in July 2019. Rachel Shearer contributed an audio composition that includes granular fragments of Atkin\'92s dialogue.\
The title for the works is a response to the desolate journey of the erosion sediment to the ocean. Parawhenuamea, the atua (deity)\
of alluvial waters, is also a maker\uc0\u8232 of land, carrying sediment loads\u8232 to the ocean. Aroha Yates-Smith, renowned scholar of feminine\u8232 deities in Te Ao M\u97 \u772 ori, and her daughter Kahurangiariki Smith share knowledge about Parawhenuamea in their collaborative work.\

\f1\i\b0 He Tangi Aroha\'97Mama Don\'92t Cry
\f2\i0\b , 2019 a collaboration between Kahurangiariki Smith and Aroha Yates-Smith\
video\uc0\u8232 16 min 17 sec\

\f1\i\b0 Framed by our puna in Rotorua,\uc0\u8232 a place of burning-cold water, renowned scholar of feminine deities in Te Ao M\u97 \u772 ori Aroha Yates- Smith sings her composed waiata Pup\u117 \u772  ake Waipuna, addressing Parawhenuamea, the deity of alluvial waters and silt.
\f2\i0\b \

\f1\i\b0 In 2012 my mother Aroha was one who stood for this awa in the Waitangi tribunal hearing of Ng\uc0\u97 \u772 ti Rangiwewehi.
\f2\i0\b \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0\fs26 \cf0 \'97
\f0\i0 Kahurangiariki Smith 
\f1\i Special acknowledgements:
\f0\i0 \
Makere Atkins (documentation footage) Sam Britten (aerial cinematography) Zane Egginton (video technical support) Sarah Munro (logistics)\
Rachel Shearer (sound)\
Ng\uc0\u97 \u772  mihi arohanui ki a Atkins, Monteith, Robertson and Yates-Smith wh\u97 \u772 nau.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Tuan Andrew Nguyen\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0 \cf0 The Island
\f2\i0\b , 2017\uc0\u8232 2048 x 1080p, colour, 5.1 surround sound 42 min\
Weaving historical documentaries with sci-fi futurism, 
\f1\i\b0 The Island 
\f2\i0\b navigates the tortuous territories of survival in the midst of exile, and end-of-the-world dystopias.\
Drawing from the artist\'92s family escape from Vietnam at the end of the American War, Tuan Andrew Nguyen\'92s work revisits the island\uc0\u8232 of Pulau Bidong off the coast of Malaysia, where his family stayed for years as occupants of the largest refugee camp of the time.\
On the one-square-kilometre\uc0\u8232 island, better known as a diver\'92s paradise, the artist built his own filmic memorial by blending historical testimonies and media reports\
from the island with a fictional tale of apocalypse. In the film, the two survivors of a devastating global nuclear war hover between hope and despair. Marooned on a tropical island in the middle of a vast\
ocean, the protagonists stand as a possible solution to the survival of the species, pondering about life and death among monuments and remnants of a disappearing world.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Exhibition guide V2 - with Kahu updates.indd 8-9\
30/10/2019\
10:57:43 AM\
89\
Artist bios\uc0\u8232 Francis Al\'ffs (b. 1959 Antwerp, Belgium)\
was originally trained as an architect. He moved to Mexico City in 1986,\uc0\u8232 where he continues to live and work.\u8232 It was the confrontation with issues of urbanisation and social unrest in his new country of adoption that inspired his decision to become a visual artist. Al\'ffs\'92 art is centred on observations\u8232 of, and engagements with, everyday\u8232 life. His multifaceted projects include public actions, installations, videos, paintings and drawings; the artist himself has described his work as \'93a sort of discursive argument composed of episodes, metaphors, or parables\'94.\
Charlotte Graham (Pare Hauraki,\uc0\u8232 Pare Waikato, Ng\u97 \u772 ti Kotimana) is an interdisciplinary artist who uses different materials to engage in indigenous dialogue. Graham\'92s work has addressed social, cultural and political issues for more than twenty years. Graham has exhibited nationally and internationally, including\u8232 at 
\f1\i Piko
\f0\i0 , Keomailani Hanapi Foundation, Waimea, Hawai\'91i; 
\f1\i Te Tataitanga 
\f0\i0 at Southwest Art; Craft, San Antonio, Texas, 2008; and APT8 with The SaVAge K\'92lub, Gallery of Modern Art, Brisbane, 2015.\uc0\u8232 In 2017, Graham undertook a residency working closely with Chilean scientists and educators in the Bosque Pehu\'e9n (Pehuen Forest), Southern Chile.\
Ioane Ioane\'92s multidisciplinary practice involves sculpture, painting, installation and performance and often acknowledges the spiritual and transitional nature of space (the va) as a place of transformation-birth and becoming.\
His work is held in the public collections of the National University of Samoa; Cambridge Museum of Anthropology, UK; Te Papa Tongarewa, Wellington; Auckland Art Gallery Toi o T\uc0\u97 \u772 maki; P\u97 \u772 taka Art + Museum, Porirua, Wellington; Tjibaou Cultural Center, Noumea; James Wallace Arts Trust; the University of Auckland; and many other private and public collections.\
Knitlab is the art and design initiative\uc0\u8232 of HyunJin Yun \u50980 \u54788 \u51652  and Robin de Haan. Together, Knitlab\'92s kaupapa is to make illuminable knitted light sculptures to invoke mystery and marvel.\
Born in Go Bu, South Korea, Yun is\uc0\u8232 a former silk colour technician and trader with a Masters in Art and Design at AUT. She develops shape-able fabric using copper, nylon and fibre optics. De Haan studied Graphics and Design at AUT and Sociology at the University of Auckland. He is a member of the Gribblehirst Community Shed workshop, the South Auckland and\u8232 the West Auckland Woodturners Guild.\
He designs lights using 3D modelling, woodturning and electronics. Themes of nature and sustainability inspire Knitlab\'92s exhibitions, events and productions.\
Graeme Atkins is a born and bred\uc0\u8232 East Coaster, living at Tikapa, a small community situated on the coast\u8232 near the Waiapu river mouth, half an hour northeast of Ruatoria. Atkins combines his interests in natural history, specialising in indigenous flora, with his vocation. Employed by Te Papa Atawhai Department of Conservation as a ranger, for 25 years Atkins\'92 focus has been\u8232 on rare and threatened flora. In 2009,\u8232 he was awarded Network\'92s National Conservation individual award for his efforts caring for indigenous plants on the East Coast. Recently, Atkins has activated his own interests in visual media to tell the story of the extreme challenges facing Waiapu River and Rauk\u117 \u772 mara Forest.\
Alex Monteith (b. Belfast, Ireland. Resides Te Piha, T\uc0\u97 \u772 maki Makaurau Auckland, Aotearoa New Zealand) is an artist and senior lecturer at the Elam School of Fine Arts, The University of Auckland, Aotearoa. Her participatory and video works often explore the political dimensions of culture engaged in turmoil over land ownership, history and occupation. Traversing political\
movements, contemporary sports, culture and social activities, many artworks focus on relationships between knowledge and water in the Pacific region. Exhibitions include 
\f1\i Coastal Flows Coastal Incursions, 
\f0\i0 2014\'96ongoing; 
\f1\i Exercise Blackbird: Alex Monteith
\f0\i0 , MMK Frankfurt, 2012; and the 4th and 5th Auckland Triennials, 2010 and 2013. She is also a member of the collective Local Time (Danny Butt, Jon Bywater, Alex Monteith and Natalie Robertson), and is a some-time political and environmental activist.\
Natalie Robertson (Ng\uc0\u97 \u772 ti Porou, Clann Dh\'f2nnchaidh, b. Kawerau, Aotearoa New Zealand) is an artist and Senior Lecturer at AUT University, T\u97 \u772 maki Makaurau Auckland. Robertson\'92s research and artistic practice draws on historic archives and Ng\u97 \u772 ti Porou oral customs, by exploring M\u97 \u772 ori knowledge practices, environmental issues and cultural landscapes, to engage relationships to place.\
Robertson photographed extensively for the multi-award-winning book 
\f1\i A Whakapapa of Tradition: One Hundred Years of Ng\uc0\u97 \u772 ti Porou Carving, 1830\'96 1930
\f0\i0 , written by Ngarino Ellis (2016), which won the Judith Binney Best First Book Award for Illustrated Non-Fiction in the 2017 Ockham New Zealand Book Awards; and recently exhibited in\

\f1\i To Make/Wrong/Right/Now
\f0\i0 \'97Honolulu Biennial 2019.\
Exhibition guide V2 - with Kahu updates.indd 10-11\
30/10/2019\
10:57:43 AM\
10\
11\
He uri t\uc0\u101 \u772 nei n\u111 \u772  ng\u97 \u772  iwi i heke mai ai i runga i ng\u97 \u772  waka o Te Arawa, o Tainui, o Takitimu, o Horouta, o Mataatua me ng\u97 \u772  iwi hoki i takea mai nei i te whenua nei, i te \u85 \u772 kaip\u111 \u772 , i ng\u97 \u772  whenua o Uropi hoki.\
Aroha Yates-Smith was raised\uc0\u8232 in Rotorua and lives in Kirikiriroa (Hamilton). She was Professor and Dean of Te Pua W\u97 \u772 nanga ki te Ao, School of M\u97 \u772 ori and Pacific Development, at the University of Waikato. Her PhD thesis, entitled 
\f1\i Hine! E Hine!: Rediscovering the Feminine in M\uc0\u97 \u772 ori Spirituality
\f0\i0 , focuses on the role of atua w\uc0\u97 \u772 hine in M\u97 \u772 ori cosmology and the marginalisation of the M\u97 \u772 ori feminine in ethnographic writings and the modern colonised M\u97 \u772 ori community. Ultimately, her main focus is on caring for the environment, descendants of Papa and Rangi. This is reflected in her diverse creative works.\
Kahurangiariki Smith\'92s principal focus is on mana w\uc0\u97 \u772 hine and storytelling, which inform her art and video game development practices. Kahurangiariki\'92s artworks often employ digital\
formats, a reflection of the media we engage with, in person and online\'97 gifs, games and karaoke. Recently Kahurangiariki has been collaborating with her mother, Aroha Yates-Smith, sharing intergenerational knowledge. Kahurangiariki\'92s work seeks to elevate indigenous voices, critiquing colonial histories and ongoing colonising relationships.\
Tuan Andrew Nguyen (b. 1976, Saigon, Vietnam) graduated from the Fine Arts program at the University of California, Irvine in 1999 and received his Masters of Fine Arts from The California Institute of the Arts in 2004. Upon returning to Vietnam, he founded the collective/media agency known as The Propeller Group\
in 2006 and a year later co-founded\uc0\u8232 an artist-initiated space call S\'e0n Art in Saigon. Nguyen has been the recipient of multiple film awards. His work, both individually and as part of The Propeller Group, is in the collections of major institutions around the world including the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the Whitney Museum of American Art, Queensland Art Gallery, and the Museum of Modern Art.\
Best known for drawings and collages indexing downtown New York in the 80s by its telling debris (notably her Found Dope series), Candy Jernigan\'92s (d. 1991) diaristic body of work assigned temporal and regional specificity to all the artist encountered. To, From, the second exhibition of Jernigan\'92s work at Greene Naftali, brings together a selection of the artist\'92s journals and drawings spanning travels to Italy, the Yucatan, the Midwest, Australia, and regular visits to Cape Breton, Canada.\
Jernigan\'92s travel works span series of landscapes chronicling hourly atmospheric changes; taxonomies of incidental trash like bottle caps and pop tops from around the world; and renderings of the at times inscrutable paraphernalia of travel, faithfully committing transit systems\'92 numeric systems and foreign languages from train tickets to paper. Frequently, the artist intersects these subject matter, in order to more precisely position her drawings in space and time. Landscapes painted over several trips to Italy reinforce their temporal singularity, painted over and alongside humble documents of Jernigan\'92s adjacent activities that day. In Ayer\'92s Rock, Jernigan pairs a succinct, picturesque landscape\'97painted from a postcard adhered to one of her travel journals\'97 with a studied sequence of various gravel. Testifying to another dimension of the site\'92s verisimilitude is a map of its location in the lower left corner. A sequence of drawings from Cape Breton, made over the course one single day, traces daily fluctuations with an economy of means. In a small, snapshot-sized rectangle, Jernigan records slight chromatic shifts across a swath of ocean enveloped in two shreds of land, and the sky. Jernigan\'92s drawings evidencing transit itself\'97tickets and baggage tags\'97are often dated not by Jernigan\'92s hand but by the transactional stamp marking arrival and departure dates in passports. Assigning her drawings to discrete \'93travel series,\'94 accompanying them with color keys, Jernigan further enforces a complex system categorizing her drawings and the conditions of their making.\
Also on view in vitrines are a selection of Jernigan\'92s extensive notebooks. Jernigan gleans indigenous character from even the most general of objects\'97collecting and bagging samples of dirt or sugar, stapling them to pages of her notebooks\'97and incorporates them into the rhythm and texture of her travel days. An eggshell is accompanied by a timed and dated entry in tiny, intricate handwriting, detailing haggling over the item because of a torn bill. One journal from travels during Christmas periodically contains streamers and stray confetti. Hotel stays are evidenced equally by stationary and toilet paper. In one vitrine is an accordion notebook, which opens to a panoramic view of Cape Breton. The drawing stretches from a shoulder in the road on which a car is parked and a single home buried in the trees, across a long span of ocean, and ends in a small patch of homes and RVs in another wooded area. The sky in the landscape transitions from blue to black, documenting changes in the weather, or the lapse in time from when Jernigan began the drawing.\
Anna Meliksetian and Michael Briggs are pleased to present 
\f1\i Water\'92s Edge, 
\f0\i0 the second exhibition in the gallery of the work of Bas Jan Ader.\
From Bas Jan Ader\'92s childhood in Holland learning to sail on the Eems-Dollard Esturary, playing truant from school to go out on the sea with the local prawn fisherman as a teen, wearing only clothing of a particular shade of ocean blue, through his many seminal and highly influential art works to his final fateful ocean voyage at the age of 33, water has been a leitmotif throughout his life. 
\f1\i Water\'92s Edge 
\f0\i0 explores how this is manifest literally and metaphorically in art works Ader made in the period between 1970 and 1972.\
Ader\'92s overarching and most significant concern during this period was the notion of the Fall where, as Ader has stated, \'93gravity made itself master over me.\'94 While the embodiment of these philosophical ideas in the art works runs through nearly the entire exhibition, it is notable that the actions are situated alongside bodies of water, from the Pacific coast in Los Angeles, to the canals and rivers of Amsterdam, to the oceanside of Sweden. The Fall, for Ader the philosophical problem of free will and determinism, whether it is the literal physical fall of body to earth or the metaphorical fall of mankind (Ader\'92s parents were pastors) is made apparent throughout these works, but the notion of falling also asserts itself in the element of water, the waterfall, the falling of tears on the artist\'92s face and his disappearance into the water after falling into the canal as seen at the end of 
\f1\i Fall 2, Amsterdam
\f0\i0 . These works are juxtaposed in the exhibition with works evoking the 19th century tradition of the sublime, the contemplative and philosophical Romantic artist gazing out to sea and to the vastness of nature in the various 
\f1\i Study for Farewell to faraway friends, 
\f0\i0 1971 photos and then again in front of the crashing sea and rocky landscape in 
\f1\i The elements, 
\f0\i0 1971.\
In the performance work 
\f1\i The boy who fell over Niagara Falls, 
\f0\i0 1972, the artist reads a text from the March 1972 issue of the then popular magazine 
\f1\i Reader\'92s Digest 
\f0\i0 recounting the true story of a young boy\'92s accidental plunge over the edge of the 175 foot high roaring waterfall and his miraculous survival. As Ader reads the text in a flat, affectless voice, he slowly and methodically sips from a glass of water and the performance concludes when the glass is empty. The work was performed by Ader three times publicly at Cal Arts, Valencia, California, at art & project, Amsterdam, and at Kabinett f\'fcr Aktuelle Kunst, Bremehaven as well as privately at the home of artist William Leavitt, as in the video work shown.\
The vintage photos exhibited alongside the video are from the final performance of the work at the Kabinett in Germany, which was notable as Ader added for the first and only time a final element, whereby upon finishing the glass of water after the word \'93death\'94 in the text, thus ending the\
performance, he left the room crying with tears falling down his face. A counter point prefiguring this action are the photos hung opposite in the gallery, two works from the small photographic series entitled 
\f1\i Study for I\'92m too sad to tell you, 
\f0\i0 1971 made alongside the seminal film work in the year prior showing the artist in tears. The Kabinett photos are also notable as they are the last work Ader made that reveal his face, despite the artist himself being a protagonist in subsequent works. The Niagara Falls story itself, the survival of the young boy in overwhelming and dire circumstances, what could be considered a miracle, hopeful and inspiring, cheating fate and overcoming destiny, foreshadows Ader\'92s trans-Atlantic sailing voyage at its beginning, part of what ultimately became his final art work in 1975, the uncompleted grand trilogy 
\f1\i In search of the miraculous.
\f0\i0 \
The work of Bas Jan Ader (1942 \'96 missing at sea 1975) has been featured in many institutional solo exhibitions including the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, the Kunsthalle Basel, the Camden Art Center, London, the Centro Galego de Arte Contempor\'e1nea / CGAC, Santiago Compostela, Spain and the Museo d\'92Arte Moderna di Bologna / MAMBO, Italy as well as the Venice and Sao Paolo Biennials in 2017 and 2012 respectively. Recent group exhibitions include shows at Los Angeles County Museum of Art / LACMA, National Gallery of Australia, Canberra, Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna, Museu Serralves, Porto, Portugal, Castello di Rivoli Museo d\'92Arte, Turin and the Mus\'e9e d\'92art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, Paris, among many others.\
Valentine incarnates a key moment in the development of the Los Angeles art scene in the 1960s and 1970s (in parallel, and somewhat in opposition to New York-based Minimalism). His work caught immediate attention through a fresh vernacular artistic vocabulary that encapsulated the essence of L.A. life. Valentine\'92s work stems from an unexpected alliance between his extraordinary technical and engineering virtuosity, and his rich and sensual perceptual experience. His sculptural and pictorial career has, for the past six decades, been spanning a colossal, yet, intimate project, and reflects Valentine\'92s abiding \'93love affair with the L.A. ocean and sky.\'94\
This exhibition offers fresh avenues to engage more fully with Valentine\'92s remarkably rich and complex ongoing career. Ever since his emergence on the Los Angeles art scene in 1965, Valentine stood out as an artist developing cutting edge technological solutions for his ambitious sculptures, as well as his lesser-known, yet striking paintings. He seamlessly put to use his unique engineering and scientific skills towards previously unseen aesthetic results. Valentine\'92s abstract and geometric volumes were made out of synthetic plastic and resins, a material almost untouched by artists at the time. What remains the unique mark of Valentine\'92s sculptural production, is that he was capable of endowing this industrial and commercial material with poetic qualities, and dreamy, ethereal, vaporous associations that were unforeseeable from such a material. Valentine transformed this medium and made it very apt to capture the subtle nuances of the rich and varied L.A. atmospheric effects.\
Valentine was a key member of a group of artists loosely referred to as 
\f1\i Light and Space 
\f0\i0 (whose ranks also included Robert Irwin, Larry Bell, Peter Alexander, John McCracken, Craig Kauffman, Laddie John Dill, Helen Pashgian, Mary Corse, and other younger artists, such as Gisela Colon): they all tended to share a similar vision, each artist injecting his/her work with specific inflections and particular marks. They also shared an abiding interest in a formal vocabulary that consisted of flat smooth, highly polished, geometrical volumes, such as rectangular planks, discs, stelae, spheres.\
Until 1966 (date when Valentine patented his invention of a new synthetic resin), it was impossible for anyone working with resins or plastics to elaborate a sculpture taller than a couple of feet due to the inherently soft and unstable properties of resin. The complex and hazardous process of building up free-standing volumes required several painstaking steps of pouring the resin under high heat, waiting for the first layer to dry before pouring in the next one, and so on. The result led to a block of material that was inherently flawed, and highly susceptible to break or crack.\
Equipped with a rare gift in mastering complex equations in physics, chemistry, and engineering, Valentine signaled himself by 
\f1\i inventing 
\f0\i0 the material necessary in order to produce the sculptures that he wanted with greater solidity, stability, and impressive height. Having worked with an engineer at the Hastings Plastic Company, he came up with a new chemical product, commercially available under the patent of \'93Valentine MasKast Resin,\'94 which enabled him to produce the monumental translucent works that became his signature.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 39 East 78th Street, 2nd Floor New York, NY 10075, USA\uc0\u8232 T +1 (212) 804 8496 contact.newyork@alminerech.com www.alminerech.com\
De Wain Valentine\uc0\u8232 'Works from 1967 to Present'\
April 30 - June 08, 2019\
Opening Reception Tuesday, April 30th 6to8PM\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Valentine\'92s technological prowess recently led to new scholarship, and a ground- breaking scientific exploration, the results of which, were published by the Getty Conservation Institute, and were centered around the colossal Gray Column, 1971.1\
His invention of a new resin formula\'97a rare scientific feat for any artist at the time\'97 immediately enabled Valentine to endow his resin sculptures with the colossal scales (up to 12 feet and more) that he had dreamt of. These monumental sculptures count, among them, the sublime 
\f1\i Gray Column
\f0\i0 , 1975, or earlier on, 
\f1\i Red Concave Circle
\f0\i0 , 1970 (now in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art collection). The historical disk sculpture, 
\f1\i Circle Smoke Gray, 
\f0\i0 presented today at the Almine Rech, is also dated 1970 \'97a year of historic importance for Valentine who referred to the LACMA sculpture as \'93his first big circle.\'94 Indeed, Valentine was already familiar with the treatment of disks or circles within his sculptural practice. In a recent telephone conversation, Douglas Chrismas (founder of ACE) shared information on the early history of Valentine\'92s disk sculptures, initially exhibited at his first gallery, the Douglas Gallery, in Vancouver, as early as in 1967.\
Valentine has been working through a fairly contained vocabulary of geometric shapes and volumes (discs, trapezoidal volumes, pyramidical or rhombus-shaped stelae). These stelae made out of translucent, at times hazy-looking resin, differed considerably from the geometric vocabulary developed by minimalist artists during the same years in New York. While the latter group focused on questions of objecthood, immediacy, and conceptual clarity, Valentine and the 
\f1\i Light and Space 
\f0\i0 artists forged a new language, inextricably tied to a harmonious reflection that drew upon the visual spectrum produced by the West Coast climes: sun and clouds, fog and clarity, ocean and sand.\
In his own inimitable voice, Valentine is fond of emphasizing what these works are about: \'93I always wanted a big magic saw I could cut up big hunks of L.A. smog or hunks of ocean and say: \'91Look at this!\'92 The polyester was the only way to objectify that love of it.\'942 
\f1\i Circle Smoke Grey 
\f0\i0 (1970), presented today, precisely embodies the artist\'92s vision: it appears to have trapped in resin \'93a hunk of L.A. smog\'94\'97a transliteration of the dense and complex Californian atmosphere into a clear, translucent sculptural form.\
Even though other artists (Robert Irwin, Helen Pashgian, and others) have shared in this fascination for the disk as an artistic form, in various iterations, Valentine pioneered the invention of a free-standing concave disk, and, through his own patented invention of a new genre of synthetic resin, was able to endow these disks (his \'93big circles\'94) with unforeseeable dimensions. The exhibition at Almine Rech presents us with a rare opportunity to view and discover the diverse and rich spectrum of Valentine\'92s artistic practice. It is rare to be able to see a selection of sculptures together with his paintings (a lesser known facet of his practice); yet, for Valentine, both constitute two sides of the same coin. His pictorial practice, with a different medium, and on a two-dimensional format, also aim at capturing the magical alluring aspects of the qualities of the atmosphere in the Pacific. Indeed, some of his most extraordinary paintings were executed in Hawaii and display an almost gem-like quality. In fact, referencing jewelry with respect to Valentine\'92s paintings is no mere metaphor. Often proudly referring to one of his ancestors who was a gold miner in Colorado during the Gold Rush, Valentine discussed in a recent conversation his own fascination for gold. Valentine\'92s fascination for gold and gems goes along with his long-held admiration for medieval manuscript illumination. In an analogous way, he resorted to applying pure gold leaves on his canvas before applying the rich layers of bright blue and purple pigments. Valentine\'92s painting 
\f1\i Purple Illuminated Skyline 
\f0\i0 (1998) clearly carries a clear allegiance to the medieval genre of illuminations, also executed through a careful application of gold leaves on parchment. The scene depicted in the illustration below shows a distribution of gifts during New Year\'92s Eve. This is one of the sumptuous pages in the 
\f1\i Tr\'e8s riches heures du Duc de Berry, 
\f0\i0 by the Limbourg brothers. A couple of features directly relevant to\
Valentine\'92s own painting: the application of fine gold leaves on the surface, of course, but also the choice of a particularly rich blue/purplish pigment used to depict the firmament\'97the firmament also echoing Valentine\'92s continued interest in \'93skylines\'94: (found in the titles of many of his works). Both works, the 
\f1\i Tr\'e8s riches heures
\f0\i0 , and De Wain Valentine\'92s paintings are animated with a certain cosmological dimension. These layers of interests and references, unexpected from any artist in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, confer a unique place to Valentine within the art historical world. This exhibition offers a rare opportunity to engage freshly with Valentine\'92s ever surprising creative practices.\
Working as a physical oceanographer at NIOZ (the Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research), my field of research is that of ocean colour, remote-sensing, and marine optics, which includes the study of colour of natural waters. These studies are based on multi- and hyper-spectral measurements of the water column, also from space. There is also a simpler way to determine the colour of natural waters, using the Forel-Ule colour comparator scale, which has been applied globally and extensively by oceanographers and limnologists since the end of the 19th century. It has been rediscovered by oceonographers today as a useful tool to index water on its true colour.\
In 2016 I received an email from Irene Kopelman, a\uc0\u8232 visual artist from Argentina living in the Netherlands. She\u8232 told me she was interested in scientific methods of colour observation and asked if I had time to talk with her. We first met on September 30, 2016 and, again, a couple of days later in my office at the Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea research (on the island of Texel). Irene had expressed interest in working together and, not knowing exactly what to expect from a collaboration with a visual artist, Irene showed me\u8232 the outcome of her work from previous collaborations with other scientists, such as her renderings of crab movements on shore at low tide, with marine biologists, and drawings of microscopic organisms in the maritime lab of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.\
We started our collaborative project in the beginning\uc0\u8232 of October 2016, under Irene\'92s working title, \'91Indexing an intangible material\'92, which changed during our project to the simpler \'91Indexing Water\'92. In my understanding Irene wanted to take this specific research \'96 the search for the mechanisms behind the arcane colouring of natural waters, despite, and\u8232 in addition to its supposed transparency \'96 as inspiration for her artwork. Even though her work is conceptual, abstracting elements of the natural world, such as colour, it has its ties to concrete matters. You have to realise that climate change can have its influence on the colour of the sea.\
Shortly after our coming together I offered her my time and a place to work at NIOZ, Dept. Coastal Systems \'96 Marine Optics and Remote Sensing. During this period she got the status of Guest Scientist. Irene\'92s art project started in the beginning of 2017 \'96 a time of new and challenging marine optical research, as it coincided with the launching of the four-year Coastal Ocean Darkening project (COD). The main topic of this project consists of the scientific study of the so-called \'91darkening issue\'92 \'96 the issue of the North and Baltic seas becoming less clear (mentioned in scientific publications).\
Collaborating with an artist like Irene was new to me. To acquaint her with my work and research in Marine optics,\uc0\u8232 I first took her to a COD workshop meeting at the TRIOS company near Oldenburg. The TRIOS company would manufacture the hyperspectral radiometers used in this project. As the meeting was organized between all project partners, for each to clarify their specific input, it was a\u8232 great introduction to the project for someone like Irene. Accordingly, Irene interviewed me at our Institute on all kinds of issues related to Marine optics and remote-sensing. Our \'91method\'92: she came into the office, sat down with a coffee and started firing questions at me on differently coloured\
waters. We had animated discussions all the way through our meetings in 2017.\
These sessions consisted of two-hour interviews, more or less. We spoke about why seas had a certain colour\uc0\u8232 and about the mechanisms responsible for the colouring of natural waters. Topics and waters discussed were: the blue and green grotto at the island of Capri, Naples, Italy; the blue and green lakes at the Azores, Portugal; the Kayzers tube; Count Luigi Ferdinando Marsili, the first oceanographer who in the 17th century measured colour; historic publications\u8232 on oceanography in general; and we spoke more than\u8232 once about the Secchi disk and Forel-Ule scale. As part\u8232 of my research, I\'92m interested in bringing back this colour comparator scale into today\'92s science. In addition to our in- person meetings, later on I Irene also consulted me through long Face Time meetings. Over the year we built up a very good and personal relation. Irene was the artist, but I always tried to exercise some influence on her upcoming and new artistic ideas. I realized that of course she was the artist and I was the scientist. But this never stood between us.\
When we started collaborating, I was simply curious about Irene\'92s work, but over the course of the project this developed into a personal dialogue, which was interesting for both of us to explore. Along the way, Irene prepared ideas and showed me her first sketches, which were drawn from my colour observations and historical work, as well as from joining me during practical work in the lab and darkroom, on field trips, and workshops. In my research at NIOZ I have consulted many historic papers and books on the colour\uc0\u8232 and clarity of the sea, another common interest and base for our conversations. As part of the Indexing Water project, an exhibition on the topic of the colour of sea is now emerging. Irene has been a very inspiring person to me, with a specific artistic goal to relate science to art by expressing its specific signs into drawings, paintings, and sculpture.\
An example to end with: as mentioned before, one of\uc0\u8232 the recurring topics of our conversations was the Secchi disk. The Secchi disk is a white disk, 30cm in diameter, used to establish the water clarity by measuring the\u8232 depth at which the disc ceases to be visible from the surface. Oceanographers around the world perform these measurements, and the NIOZ holds the world\'92s record on\u8232 a Secchi disk depth of 78.5 m, observed in the very clear waters of the Weddell Sea near the Antarctic. To be clear: at 78.5 m under the water\'92s surface, the disk can still be seen.\
For her exhibition in Lisbon, Irene decided she wanted to translate the above into a glass column, 30 cm in diameter, 78.5 m in height, to be placed at the entrance of the Kunsthalle. However, after some deep thinking she came to the conclusion that this kind of sculpture would of course\uc0\u8232 be extremely heavy, tall, and massive. She decided to divide all measures by a factor of 10, so that the column would instead be 7.8 m in height and 3 cm in diameter. In fact, two columns have now been produced: one bluish in colour \'96 the one representing the Wendell Sea Secchi disk depth \'96 and another depicting the most turbid, brownish coloured, natural waters on our planet, in which the Secchi disk ceases to\
be visible 10 cm below the water\'92s surface. This can be observed for instance in the Madura Strait in Indonesia or at the outlet of the Yangtze River in China, where it flows into the Yellow Sea. Following the scaling of its counterpart, this \'91column\'92 will be 1 cm in height and 3 cm in diameter. And brown in colour.\
From midtown\'92s corporate atriums of the 1970s and 80s to today\'92s High Line Park in Chelsea, the presence of nature in the contemporary city speaks to a need to beautify as well as an urge to cleanse the complex social organism that is the urban environment. Drawing on pastoral imagery of natural innocence found in Arcadian myths of a pre-civilization harmony between humanity and nature, parks and gardens in the city center offer a picturesque remove, providing an imaginary alternative to the despoiling effects of civilization.\
Despite the near universal appeal of nature, it is rarely evenly dispersed within the urban environment. Providing an amenity to enhance neighborhoods (Chelsea\'92s West Side) or new development (The Hudson Yards), the introduction of \'93nature in the city\'94 reshapes socio- economic conditions while veiling its effect via nature\'92s implicit \'93goodness\'94, promoting a sense of inevitability of urban growth (and displacement) as a \'93natural\'94 occurrence.\
Working with the themes of nature, urbanism and media, Peter Scott\'92s exhibition, 
\f1\i Arcadias
\f0\i0 , includes photographs documenting life-size ads found within luxury residential construction sites, which collapse distinctions between public and private realms. Contrasting with the workaday reality of buildings in progress, the illusionistic properties of the oversized ads are sometimes mistaken for reality, as dreams of pastoral urban living overshadow the banal infrastructure that will bring them into being.\
Halfway between what was and what will be, 
\f1\i Arcadias 
\f0\i0 documents an urbanism in transition, revealing the significance of fantasy and display in the ongoing reshaping of the city\'92s neighborhoods. Conveying disorienting qualities of a mediated urban space where images of nature are invoked to help authenticate an urban lifestyle that\'92s increasingly theatrical, 
\f1\i Arcadias 
\f0\i0 engages with an urban image world where \'93trusted\'94 signs of nature sometimes distort or conflict with the reality of the world around us.\

\f1\i Arcadias 
\f0\i0 continues in the downstairs gallery with a group exhibition featuring works by 
\f2\b Jennifer Bolande
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Ethan Breckenridge
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Francis Cape
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Vija Celmins
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Barbara Ess
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Jeff Gibson
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Dan Graham 
\f0\b0 and 
\f2\b Robin Hurst
\f0\b0 , 
\f2\b Neil Jenney
\f0\b0 , and 
\f2\b Virginia In\'e9s Vergara 
\f0\b0 which address issues of nature and simulation, power relations within landscape conventions, and the re-presentation of \'93the natural\'94 within an urban setting.\
For his third solo exhibition at Altman Siegel titled 
\f1\i Albatross
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\b Will Rogan 
\f0\b0 presents new sculptures and photographs that grow from a troubled relationship to the built environment and a longing to both connect and disassociate from culture. Focusing on nature, Rogan entangles his work with organic elements and ecological processes, rejecting culture\'92s standards for quantifying and tracking time.\
One body of work is comprised of photographs made in Antarctica, the Eastern Sierras, and Wyoming during a total solar eclipse. The unique photographs are traditional black and white silver gelatin prints, presented in handmade sculptural frames. The photos depict scenes that feel as though people have never looked at them. For some of the pictures this is their central subject\'97a lack of human seeing.\
Several large sculptures are on view in the exhibition, including a sculpture made from the mast of Rogan\'92s boat (where he has lived for the past four years) with an urn-shaped pot covered in aquatic life balanced on top. The urn had been suspended under the boat for one and a half years where it became colonized by sea life. Its new position on top of the twenty-foot mast physically elevates something that arrived from dark, murky depths and is a gesture intended to be considered formally as well as metaphorically.\
Enlarged, bisque-fired replicas of coffee cups placed atop large rocks make up another aspect of the exhibition. Filled with ocean water over time, the water soaked through the porous ceramic, depositing salt crystals over the surfaces of the vessels. The resulting sculptures offer three distinct timescales to consider: a humans\'92 coffee break, geological eras and the ocean tides\'92 circadian bond to the universe. The last part of the exhibition is comprised of small, handcrafted sculptures. Composed of elevated ruins, they are made from fragments of painted wood, cuckoo clock chains, clock motors, and brass and often contain a figurative element drawn from Rogan\'92s home-life narrative.\

\f1\i A Model Childhood
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i Honolulu, Hawaii, circa 1940
\f0\i0 . A photograph showing the first Boys\'92 Day celebration of the artist\'92s father\'97a rare document of Sansei (3rd generation) Hiroshima-Japanese culture as it migrated further into American geography and overlaid various cultural forms and habits as they occurred before WWII. (Immediately following the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941, all Japanese-signified objects were thrown into the ocean by the artist\'92s grandfather as a way of overtly demonstrating \'93loyalty\'94 to the new order by self-enforcing a pure \'93American\'94 family identity. They were not put into \'93camp\'94 on the mainland, and he was still able to find employment. His wife, who grew up going back and forth between Japan and Hawaii, and who was from a merchant-class family (i.e. pearl necklace and Parisian fashion mixed with kimonos), was now stuck only in America. It should have been \'93okay\'94 since she was born in Hawaii, but this newly purified enforcement of strict identity narratives led to chronic mental illness. The grandfather once told his grandson that his Boy Scout leader Silver Beaver Award was his Oscar for \'93best actor.\'94 As a teenager: when he was 12, he pretended to be an 18-year old Chinese man and enlisted in the army for WWI, but his mother saw the documents lying on his bed and stopped him just before he got on the boat for his voyage to Europe; at 16, circa 1920, he ran away from home to Los Angeles, where he worked \'93all kinds of jobs,\'94 some of which he wouldn\'92t even tell his \'93bad boy\'94 grandson about (this reference refers to one of the artist\'92s older brothers.) The grandfather lived in J-Town, at the Hotel Fedora. He seems to have worn a suit, and had some rather suspicious-looking friends. I know, this is getting confusing. The photograph is printed billboard-size, twice, with part of it cut off.\
Matthew Marks is pleased to announce Vija Celmins, the next exhibition in his galleries at 1062 North Orange Grove and 7818 Santa Monica Boulevard. Including eighteen paintings, sculptures, and works on paper made between 2014 and 2018, this will be Celmins\'92s first exhibition of new work in Los Angeles in over forty years.\
The largest work in the exhibition, an oil painting more than five feet wide, depicts the night sky in reverse, an array of dark stars floating on a light-gray field. Its seemingly monochromatic palette includes vibrant colors applied in numerous layers to create a sense of depth. At the other end of the scale, just eighteen by thirteen inches, Celmins has painted a close-up of a glazed ceramic plate, depicting it as an allover pattern of white cracks on greenish-gray field.\
Since the 1960s Celmins has been rendering nature imagery from black and white photographic sources, exploring the same subjects repeatedly in paintings, drawings, and prints. But imagery is not her foremost concern: \'93The recognizable image is just one element to consider. The paintings seem more a record of my grappling with how to transform that image into a painting and make it alive.\'94 This process can be seen here in three works on paper \'97 one a charcoal drawing, another a mezzotint, and the third a drypoint \'97 based on a photograph of the ocean she took fifty years ago from a pier in Venice, California. The role of the photograph, she explains, is to provide an \'93armature on which I hang my marks and make my art,\'94 in this case three distinct variations on the same moment frozen in time.\
The scrutiny of Celmins\'92s gaze is perhaps most evident in her sculptures. 
\f1\i Two Stones 
\f0\i0 (1977/2014\'96 16) consists of a rock and a painted bronze replica virtually indistinguishable from the original. For each of the 
\f1\i Blackboard Tableau 
\f0\i0 works (2007\'9615), she collected an early-twentieth-century writing slate and then used wood, paint, and pastel to create an identical twin. Exhibited side by side, each pair is a perceptual conundrum that invites sustained looking.\
Fabrizio Terranova's 
\f1\i Donna Haraway: Storytelling for Earthly Survival 
\f0\i0 portrays the groundbreaking thinker's pioneering work in science, technology, gender and trans-species relationships over the last four decades, which is marked by her deep commitments to feminism and environmentalism. Refusing to distinguish between humans and animals and machines, she proposes new ways of understanding our world that challenge normative structures and boundaries. Her approach to writing is equally distinct, breaking with prevailing trends in theory by embracing narrative techniques in painting a rebellious and hopeful\
future. Recognizing her singular talent for storytelling, Fabrizio Terranova spent a few weeks filming Haraway and her dog Cayenne in their California home, exploring their personal universe as well as the longer development of Haraway\'92s views on kinship and planetary welfare. For the New York premiere of the film, Donna Haraway will give a video introduction, and Fabrizio Terranova will present a collection of Youtube clips that he and Haraway have selected.\
Drawing attention to the social and biological micro-dynamics at work in the\
massive physical encroachments of resource extraction and engineering, artist\
Ursula Biemann elaborates far-reaching territorial and climatic transformations\
in her videos. Her recent fieldwork has taken her to the Amazon and the Arctic\
region. Engaging with the political ecology of oil, ice and water, the artist interweaves vast cinematic landscapes with documentary footage, SF poetry and\
academic findings to narrate a changing planetary reality. In this screening and\
presentation, Biemann will discuss her artistic practice in the projects 
\f1\i Forest
\f0\i0 \

\f1\i Law, Subatlantic 
\f0\i0 and 
\f1\i Acoustic Ocean
\f0\i0 , raising questions regarding the\
entanglement of aesthetics, ecology and geopolitics.\
A billboard advertisement flashed up: The Man in the High Castle. Coming Soon. The silhouette of a man figure in uniform overlooking a city. An American flag flying overhead. His arm band is of the kind that carries a black, crawling, four-legged spider.\
At the mouth of Rustic Creek I took Chautauqua Boulevard up along the Pacific Palisades. The Eames House is tucked in behind Eucalyptus trees up on the slope on the left and, turning right, I had the Rustic Canyon neighbourhood below and Will Rogers State Historic Park above. I followed the winding road \'96 tracing Sunset Boulevard with my headlights. Up on Capri Drive I thought of what Steven Spielberg would possibly be dreaming of, fast asleep in his house somewhere to the left of me. Kubrick\'92s Napoleon? I reached the top and parked where the paved and civilized world ends.\
Another darkness appeared ahead of me: blackened even deeper by my feeling of foreignness and the fact that I didn\'92t want to be seen at all. I turned on my torch and took the dusty fire road, protruding a dizzy beam of light onto it. No one here. Just as I intended. After a short while I passed the yellow colored road block, and crooked myself around its bar. It\'92s all slightly uphill and on the left side stooping downhill. I thought of a car wreck stuck deep down in one of the bends. The dirt road is cut along and near the top of the ridge of the canyon. Just on the other side, the sprawl of the city stops. And here I am in a vacuum: an abrupt halt to its process. This open space is known as the \'93Big Wild\'94. Far down there is the Rustic Creek again, or the waterbed traces of it. It\'92s been unusually dry for years. It\'92s only when it appears again further down towards the ocean that there is water collected in a concrete culvert. It\'92s a cool breeze and it carries a hint of burnt wood, making me think of the colossal brush fires that have swept through here from time to time. I saw traces of smaller fires along this road in the spring. My imagination lit the way and kept it burning with the thought of all the Eucalyptus trees that were present here, all deriving from the former Santa Monica Forestry Station - an experimentation by Abbot Kinney, on varieties of the immigrated tree. It opened in 1887, and itself burned down in 1904, just like the properties higher up in the canyon did later, and to where I was heading now. No lights to guide me from its ruins. The unknown, crumbled by time\'92s tooth and the licking of fire, now covered by a coat of overgrowth and night.\
999 steps lead you to the bottom of the canyon. From here two flights of stairs start as well as a barbed wired chain-linked fence. It runs ahead of me as I continue on the road beside it. Having visited the place earlier, me and my friend Jordan were stopped by a patrol car for a \'93talk\'94, just as we had started descending a trail. Speaking from a distance, the officer \'96 still up on the road and tucked behind sunglasses, a badge and the wheel of the car \'96 talked to us about his duty keeping people out of the property. That was if your intention was not of the right kind. There was a \'93beautification project\'94 going on. Beautiful in the way you picture a picnic in the green. He continued to come up with ideas for not carrying on. \'93Nothing down there of any interest. Should rather continue up the fire road till it hits Mulholland Drive and go left and you\'92ll find the Nike Missile Control Site.\'94 We continued down through the chaparral.\'94\
Nicelle Beauchene Gallery is pleased to present 
\f1\i An Eye in an Ocean
\f0\i0 , the first New York solo exhibition by Los Angeles-based artist Matthew Clifford Green.\
In this suite of new works, Green continues his exploration of intuitively painted canvases that mine universal emotional states. Composed of crudely applied layers of paint \'97 achieved by squeezing on, scraping across, and piling up \'97 the paintings\'92 thick impasto surfaces flirt with both abstract pattern and rudimentary figuration. The pictures portray a cast of raw characters that populate various psychologically charged, often isolated environments, which build their own hallucinatory narratives. Swinging from joyous scenes to ones of introspection or alienation, the works display a wide spectrum of emotion. In nestling the human figure in a field of discordantly vibrant color and pattern, Green constructs highly textured surfaces that vibrate with deep emotive activity.\
Jessica Silverman Gallery is pleased to present \'93Sea Changes,\'94 a group exhibition featuring light boxes by Susan Hiller, sculptures by Manfred Pernice and paintings by Hugh Scott-Douglas.\
For at least a century, the most innovative landscapes have not depicted nature per se, but rather used the environment as an opportunity to reflect on the human condition, psychological situations and artistic processes. Referring to a profound or notable transformation, the phrase \'93sea change\'94 first\
appears in Shakespeare\'92s 
\f1\i The Tempest 
\f0\i0 when a spirit sings, \'93But doth suffer a sea-change, into something rich and strange.\'94 The artists in this exhibition explore transformations in their surrounding ecological, technological and social landscapes to create \'93something rich and strange.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Susan Hiller\'92s 
\f0\b0 series \'93From India to Planet Mars\'94 (1997-2004) draws from the artist\'92s collection of automatic writings and drawings by friends, art students, analysands, poets, mediums, as well as a few of her own. Hiller transforms them into stark, large, white-on-black, backlit photo negatives. These spontaneous expressions of the unconscious are manifest as maps, simple figure drawings, and handwritten messages scrawled in loopy cursive. The title \'93From India to Planet Mars\'94 refers to a 1899 book, a classic in psychology, about H\'e9l\'e8ne Smith, a medium who claimed to be reincarnations of a Hindu princess and a regular visitor to Mars, whose languages she claimed to speak and whose landscapes she painted.\

\f2\b Manfred Pernice
\f0\b0 \
creates sculptural vessels with scales, materials, and aesthetics derived from the worlds of architecture, shipping cargo, and mass packaging. The works serve as complex, open-ended meditations on the increased segmentation, containment, and, to use Pernice's term, \'93canning\'94 of objects and space. His seemingly slapdash sculptures are often installed with sketches, maquettes, photographs, and texts to create multilayered systems of meaning.\
His work is a conglomerate of\
ideologies that he approaches through mental and emotional associations. Pernice\'92s work questions\
both the history and present of the world through it\'92s architecture, interiors, and non-places.\
In reaction to recent debates about globalization and the environment, 
\f2\b Hugh Scott-Douglas
\f0\b0 \'92s \'93Trade\
Wind\'94 paintings explore the paths of commercial shipping routes, pondering the movement of people,\
goods, and nature around the world. Using satellite mapping software, Scott-Douglas isolates the\
weather conditions of different trade routes and removes the boats from the image capture. With\
a strong visual rhythm, the work depicts the natural forces of currents and wind directions as\
symbols. Produced with a flatbed inkjet printer, each work is made through a process akin to silk-\
screening wherein layer is built upon layer, creating a glossy and textured finish. The resulting,\
seemingly abstract work reinterprets the genre of landscape in the era of GPS navigation.\
Yuki Kimura translates abstract ideas into tangible objects. Her conceptual approach involves borrowing elements from architecture, design, photography, and sculpture in service of making the immaterial material. She often includes found photographs, but their subject matter, composition, and context are subordinate to their presence as physical objects.\
\
Yuki Kimura translates abstract ideas into tangible objects. Her conceptual approach involves borrowing elements from architecture, design, photography, and sculpture in service of making the immaterial material. She often includes found photographs, but their subject matter, composition, and context are subordinate to their presence as physical objects.\
eam (gallery, inc.) is pleased to announce a show by German painter Andreas Schulze. Entitled 
\f1\i Vacanze 365
\f0\i0 , the exhibition will run from 07 through 30 September 2017. Team Gallery is located at 83 Grand Street in New York.\
For this exhibition, Schulze has created a cohesive body of figurative paintings, each of which depicts, in the artist\'92s abstrusely playful visual language, a person on a beach holiday. The characters, while loosely recognizable as such, seem eerily mechanical: the figures are all cut off at the head, their bodies rendered as shimmering, cylindrical tubes; their distinctly inorganic appearance is further emphasized by dense, spewing grey exhaust that emits from a hole around the midriff in each work. As is typical of Schulze\'92s practice, his warm, cartoonish rendering provides a thin mask for a series of mysterious, frequently sinister themes and motifs; the paintings are bizarre, contradictory depictions of quotidian subjects, containing equal measures of affection and menace.\
Schulze employs an oddball sense of humor \'96 rife with visual puns and exaggerated stylization \'96 to allow the viewer to access his work\'92s quietly foreboding undertones, as well as the darkness he perceives in the day-to-day of modern life. Within this show, the phrase \'93blowing off steam\'94 is made literal by the streams of pollution that emit from the beach-going figures. The fantasy of a yearlong vacation, as suggested by the exhibition\'92s title, provides a respite from the mechanized drudgery of petit-bourgeois life. The figures\'92 odd, machine-like physiques and faceless anonymity further suggest this kind of dehumanization, the treatment of people as commodities under capitalism.\
While Schulze\'92s first exhibition at Team Gallery in 2011 was an immersive installation \'96 consisting of works on canvas, situated among found objects, furniture of his own design and painted walls and floors \'96 he limited each of his following two shows to an exclusive motif \'96 windows in 2013 and automobiles in 2014. In creating within such constraints, as he has done here once again, the artist allows his prodigious visual imagination and his idiosyncratic, confident and highly skillful treatment of paint to occupy center stage. Aspects of his installation practice remain, however: here, the gallery walls are painted a stark, almost aggressive shade of blue. The color, in this context, becomes that of an oppressively idealized ocean or sky.\
There is a great deal of visual variation in the paintings, especially considering the seeming unanimity of their subject matter. Schulze\'92s vacationers are adorned with diverse articles of vividly patterned clothing. In certain works, the figure takes up the whole of the plane, while others\'92 characters are aslant, floating on a striped towel or bed of sand. The artist also plays with the arrangement and shapes of his canvases; by placing them at alternating heights, he suggests a scene,\
in which some of the figures have gone deeper into the ocean water than others. The proportions of the works vary as well: a square canvas contains an overweight \'93mother\'94 figure, while an elongated one portrays a tall, slender \'93father.\'94\
Schulze was born in Hannover in 1955 and has been exhibiting his work since 1981 \'96 his longstanding relationship with gallerist Monika Spr\'fcth beginning in 1983. Schulze\'92s work has been exhibited at museums internationally including the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Tate Museum in London, the K\'f6lnischer Kunstverein, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Kunstaele in Berlin and at the Kunstverein and the Sammlung Falckenberg, both in Hamburg. A recent retrospective toured three venues: Villa Merkel in Neckel, The Shirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt, both in Germany, and the Kunstmuseum Sankt Gallen in Switzerland.\
In Paris in 1954, Varda staged her first exhibition \'97 on the courtyard walls and shutters of the house in which she still lives and works today \'97 eighteen black & white photographs, stylistic precursors to her unprecedented works of film to come. This historic presentation of mounted, unique vintage prints is restaged here, sixty-three years later. 
\f1\i Calder et sa famille 
\f0\i0 (1954) presents Alexander Calder, his wife and daughters on a park bench in 1950s Paris \'97 close friends of Varda at the time. In 
\f1\i Nus dans les ruines 
\f0\i0 (1954), two bare male figures explore the fractured structure of a derelict house, their pearly bodies emerging from the charcoal tones of aged wood and stone. With 
\f1\i Ulysse 
\f0\i0 (1954), a man and child stand naked by a shoreline foregrounded by the soaked corpse of a goat. The man stares towards the ocean, the boy\'91s gaze rests on the animal's body \'96 three forms suggesting a hidden narrative or mystery.\
While this first room of photography offers a testimony of the artist's beginnings, the following galleries introduce a new chapter of her oeuvre, with contemporary sculpture and installation works. 
\f1\i Le Triptyque de Noirmoutier 
\f0\i0 (2005) is a three-channel video featuring a central projection of a domestic kitchen scene, a homage to Baroque Flemish painting. This interactive work includes hinged screens, allowing the viewer to open and close side panels and influence the unfolding narrative. In another recent work, 
\f1\i Bord de mer 
\f0\i0 (2009), Varda proposes three representations and distinct dimensions of time portrayal. In still image, a view of the vast ocean expands before the viewer; in moving image, the end of a wave rolls and dissolves into the shoreline; and in the enveloping experience of installation, a small beach of sand edges towards the viewer\'92s feet. As French cinematographer Julia Fabry puts it: "time passed, time permanent, and time present."\
In the upstairs galleries, the viewer encounters a group of new works by the artist, a series entitled 
\f1\i Cabanes de cinema (Shacks of cinema)
\f0\i0 . The four sculptures in this collection are maquettes \'97 miniatures of the past and future ten-foot-high \'93shacks\'94 inspired by Varda\'92s films from the 1950s- 80s. Varda constructs these structures from recycled materials from their film counterparts. She uses 35mm film composite prints to build the walls of these shacks and Super 8mm film stock for the maquettes, an act that resuscitates scenes long locked in celluloid. In this way, Varda\'92s thematic investigations weave through her bodies of work, traversing time and mediums.\
In another room, Varda presents 
\f1\i La terrasse du Corbusier, Marseille 
\f0\i0 (1956) / 
\f1\i Les gens de la terrasse 
\f0\i0 (2008). A double image: a photograph with five figures and a baby on the Le Corbusier\'92s terrace, juxtaposed with a video re-enactment of what might have preceded this very moment.\
Exhibition organizer Olivier Renaud-Cl\'e9ment notes: \'93What has struck me in meeting and working with Agnes is her vivacity and voracity for life and time \'97 a notion fully explored in her films and a curiosity ever re-awoken. Probably in this exhibition, 
\f1\i Les gens de la terrasse 
\f0\i0 seems to best synthesize the nature of her work; this notion of time passing, the moment immortalized, and the eternal importance of the before and after ... the mystery of continuity and stories told.\
The exhibition is complete with a trinity of self-portraits, captured respectively at ages twenty-one, thirty-four, and eighty-one \'97 works from the past culled together, in a self-reflexive exercise that explores the permanence of image and the ephemerality of life.\
On the occasion of the exhibition, Blum & Poe will partner with the French Institute Alliance Fran\'e7aise and Rendez-Vouz with French Cinema of the Film Society, Lincoln Center to present a series of Varda's cinematic works and lectures. On Tuesday, February 28, 7:30pm, hosted at the French Institute Alliance Fran\'e7aise, Varda will discuss her practice as a visual artist and the work on view at Blum & Poe. This talk will be moderated by Olivier Renaud-Cl\'e9ment. A full list of film programming is available on the exhibition webpage.\
For more than 25 years, Maureen Gallace (b. 1960) has painted genre scenes drawn from the American landscape and still life traditions. Her small canvases and panels most commonly depict rural pastorals and coastlines, typically featuring nondescript barns or cottages amid dunes and foliage in settings that evoke holiday cards and vacation snapshots.\
Gallace\'92s paintings, however, unsettle the reassuring sentimentality of such pictures. Situated on sunny bluffs and among verdant yards, her buildings can appear at turns inviting and inaccessible, sometimes lacking doors or windows. Paths meander through lush gardens, but may also lead the viewer astray; infinite ocean vistas collapse into shallow, intimate compositions. From the outset, Gallace has deployed a range of abstract tools to complicate the romantic enticements of her subject matter, giving rise to a quietly remarkable body of work. This exhibition features the largest group of Gallace\'92s paintings yet assembled.\
While her paintings often begin in reference to specific places that she has visited or known, Gallace deftly transforms her subjects into composites of different memories and forms, many of which repeat in variations throughout her work. Both familiar and impersonal, her art reflects a desire for beauty and solitude while inviting us into a broader meditation on our common culture. Whose bucolic landscape is this? And, for that matter, who lives here?\
Gallace avoids narrative description of her work. \'93The house doesn\'92t mean anything per se,\'94 she has said, \'93It\'92s an empty vessel.\'94 But her uninhabited scenes touch upon deeper questions of belonging and ownership that shade the idealism of American history and contemporary life. In their modest domestic scale, her paintings serve as anti-monuments for an era of \'93too-big-to-fail\'94; her obdurate homes punctuate the shortening horizons and factional regionalism of a changing and divided America. The shadows are crisp on a clear day.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 WAVE FORM WALKS THE EARTH
\f0\i0 \
Many people have broken down in search of free love, but the desire to have it has not died out and will not fade away ever. The in evitable facts for state change in general remain divine, in which all increase of the world is believed contained. At the ends of the potential it grows and all bounds break giving power to the transformer in the transitory. hence it seems that here it is the whole trick, the whole mystery occurs at the edge of the interraction. Everything has a predilection for want to exist by strict structural rules consisting of temporary gridbondages loosely tethered to memory jacketing. When there is a displacement on the soft boundary of, then these bonds is broken a wave of oscillations begins to move along the question which rips free. The disc breaking point is an accelerating element, a provisional analogue of intent causing highs where a small excitation accumulates freedom to study ones own face in reflection until it becomes a stranger with whom you are free to fall in love. Who are what looks out from behind you are is the thing that names what transforms. In written history, one can find a a lot of this nonsense and some of them are very useful. so you can easily carry out a simple experiment: turn on yourself, high on hot goo thinking of burnt rubber, well, as they say, feel the erogenous within a torso radius, when even a decaffeinated fuck on chipboard nightstand wouldn\'92t spoil the mood, you can then rest easier altered state through a mask from which the truth can be told (as mentioned above). and if you still play around with the knobs and buckles, many interesting effects. Oh as these concentricities, these coils!/ Then how many were exploding hearts in the audience of New Experiences of the Void!\
One day, with a good mood, dressing for altitude (the high altitude suit appeared to be the inevitable armor of man), working with a disc\
hammering on it with a certain frequency, ///// screaming some song, well, I saw the ineffable effect of bonds of the dics, which can only be guessed. Atimpact with frequent action they, taking shape and me, are turned on all together everything in a lovely refined manner, clear as the ringing of a bell, which was a lot of things that burned down the blessing in bulk. but I do not want to burn so fast because huge capacities accumulate from any low-power sources, and the generator already leaks some of the stored potential when it is bent over, so it must he held in place longer no doubt. This is a ready-made scheme but as always there is no money to finish. I tried on what I have. Of course, with losses, but it is enough to supply some impulse. Further, the mind that receives this, from it already is surrounded a body with chains right? (or how is it a mechanism?). Well probably it's made of some value, because the thieves went there in droves and stripped it and here the meaning is depicted. Though the observers try not to explain as it will spoil the imposed general picture. now, look what calms the captive by letting him sniff the perfume, like smell what smells like your masters crotch but here these something does not seem to converge and such inconsistencies are complete as though asnomic. Consigning phantom limbs to their place anthropometry was once applied backward to the equipment of reliquaries, and saint Concretion in the aftermath when the restraints bound them to their will, exclaiming: Well, for sure, it's not only some sort of scraper for taking the brain through your nose! The flow of goo through an opening is proportional to the square root of the height of the goo MADE IN PIPES, SYRINGINS, BELLOWS AND SIPHONS OF SEVERAL LENGTHS AND FIGURES: WITH VARIOUS LIQUORS, AS METAL, WATER, WYNE, SAP, AIR, PISS ETC WITH A SPEECH ON THE\
DISC SUBJECT, WHERE WHICH IS GREAT THAN CAN BE MADE, CAN BE VENDED OF ALL MATERIALS KNOWN IN THE NATURE, AND WHICH ARE UNDER THE MEANING, AND WHAT FORCE IS NECESSARY FOR MAKE ADMIT THIS VOIDESo in this version we are also like a shell, a stored potential yyou start to put your eyes to, the bigger vessel of contain something viscous, desiring was put in inserting sensitive into the hole. On the other hand, this sticky semaphore. For example, so the ordained mechanics checked the absolute correctness of the empty vehicle, applying a kiss, as the palms of the hands were found stale. And these are artists. Somewhere I read an ancient description when I started adjusting a machine in a large room, then at the other end of the room the same machine began to make the same adjustments to itself. I do not know how much power was produced at that, but here on this thought you can see a powerful chain attached to an equally powerful weight. In the thought we see a kind of unintelligible device, the piling up of bodies, chained with chains is great. And of course himself twisting the handle of an unprecedented insight, radiating cosmic energy and something relatid deeply, sincerely to d\'e9j\'e0 vu.\
Here is my explanation. Maybe it's traps, the breath, rarefied air is the same in the delay line of the altitude mask, the stabilizer of the uniform distribution between the How this is carried out and how it is maintained is a special issue, and for specifications here it is necessary to turn to who you will never see because they are not meant to as in many cases the medium in which the wave propagates does not permit a direct observation of true form but the turning to look is important as a signal. To all this design think attached a wire, stretching to\
through a small window into an orbiting room, where the person who invented and did all this is sitting plucking at it. 
\f1\i You see how the most constant thing in the world is losing its permanence under the influence of its own magic charms, inert matter acquires sensitivity and responds impetuously to the call of the fact
\f0\i0 . The discovery of this fact is figuratively characterized by the fixed trembling of the moon in space after it was trampled on two years after theSummer of Love, now its resonant pulse resembles a fierce blow to the bell in the church! They say a bell cannot be unrung just as soldiers marching too strictly in step will kick up enough torsional force to destroy the bridge and fall into vacui they meant to transverse. Yet we ask each other what shoes should they have him strap on in any case for the first steps. And now a wave form walks the earth.\
Elaine Cameron-Weir\
In the middle of the nineteenth century Europe became fascinated by Japan. After two hundred years of isolation the country opened up to trade with the West. A friendly obsession with Japanese art and aesthetics labeled Japonisme became an important trend among Western artists. In particular, Ukiyo-e prints captured the interest of many artists such as Van Gogh, Degas, Gauguin, and Toulouse-Lautrec. These Impressionists and Post-Impressionists, used the characteristics of Ukiyo-e such as lack of central composition and shadows, cropping of pictorial planes, and clean contours that have been incorporated into Western art for good.\
In his new series, Tectonic paintings, Kour Pour has produced eight large-scale works using the Japanese Ukiyo-e printing process. The seemingly abstract forms are appropriated from earthquake and volcano maps produced by the Japanese Geological Survey. The resulting paintings share a visual resemblance with contemporary abstraction embedded in an American/European tradition. Similar to his Persian carpet works that display designs and images influenced by early cultural exchange, these new paintings reference already intersectional histories and continue the reshaping/rewriting of visual language in contemporary culture. By highlighting a Japanese process and using it to produce works that are visually based in what is generally thought of as a Western aesthetic, the paintings question ideas of originality/authenticity and complicate the connection between appearance and identity. Known for their instability, tectonic plates form a visual metaphor for the shifting of meaning that is also reflected in the title of the show, Onnagata: the Japanese word for male kabuki actors who play female roles in Japanese theater.\
The process of making the Tectonic paintings is laborious, physical, and ritualistic. First, the geological maps are redrawn onto large printing blocks. Ink is then rolled onto the blocks and hand printed onto canvas. Sections of the block are then cut and removed. A new color is applied and printed again in a repetitive daily procedure. Every print requires the physical pressure of the body and direct contact with the canvas, the strain of which causes the surface to crack and break and the ink to shift and stretch. The importance of the manual labor and craft are documented on the printing blocks that Pour considers a precious diary of everyday work. Quiet and meditative, indispensable but usually disregarded, they carry all the marks and stains that are the accidental and uncalculated results of the process of making and as such remain silent witnesses of artistic labor.\
Black should be perceived as in primitive (peaceful and matriarchal) societies: it represents fertility, and it is also the color of damp caves, fertile soil, the uterus of the Goddess where life begins.\
2.\uc0\u8232 \'93I swam with giant turtles, I walked on glass (lava) with my sunshields (glass)\'94.1\
3.\uc0\u8232 Exotic and isolated places, populated by flora and fauna now extinct. The atmosphere is vibrant: a volcano vents smoke, and all around there is only the ocean.\
4.\uc0\u8232 The paintings are like psychograms, warm and richly imaginative signs in which neither objects nor symbols are recognizable or seem to be represented: they are outbursts, violent discharges of energy that express sensations like hot or cold, light or shadow, love or hate, life or death.\
5.\uc0\u8232 They live in the water and from the union of ancient minerals. They are not yet either demons or gods. They come before Man, fantasy, history, myth, religion.\
6.\uc0\u8232 She has buried, and has buried herself. The taboo of death has never ceased to stimulate human thought, and funeral rites can be cathartic expressions symbolizing rebirth.\
7.\uc0\u8232 The act has its motivations. The sign is the effect, but the work remains unfinished.\
8.\uc0\u8232 Spirits are snared between the lines of lead of antique windows, as in the net of a dreamcatcher.\
9.\uc0\u8232 Alchemy by greek khymeia (\u967 \u965 \u956 \u949 \u953 \u769 \u945 ), means melting, dripping, welding, inclose.\
10.\
She does not look to the sky to find God. She descends into the bowels of the earth to unite with the Goddess.\
11.\uc0\u8232 Poli\'92ahu is crying, votive tears stones.\

\f1\i Passo Dopo Passo 
\f0\i0 seeks to examine diverse\'97both historical and contemporary\'97artworks and artistic practices that reflect on the status of movement, openness and enclosure, fear and expectations. The exhibition is linked to an Italian perspective\'97that of a country with an intrinsic relationship to questions of migration.\
Considering historical precedents, the exhibition draws on several books by Fortunato Depero (b. 1892), an artist and designer affiliated with the Futurist movement. Personal notebooks, manuscripts, and published books reveal the artist\'92s optimism associated with modernism, his personal transatlantic ambitions, as well as the potential of new social order despite crippling violence within the systemic socio-political ruptures of the thirties and fourties.\
Shifting ahead to the sixties, seventies, and eighties, works by a later generation of Italian artists further the engagement with alternate realities and social spaces. For instance, Salvo\'92s collection of drawings on stationary paper from different hotels resonates with his research on the Mediterranean landscape as both a place of idealization and refuge, while simultaneously recording the artist\'92s own movement.\
Contemporary practices included in the exhibition advance the engagement with social space, movement and locality. In relation to issues of migration, the vision of the horizon continues to play a central role. The view of the ocean or the mountains in paintings, photographs, and videos, is a visual symbol rich with cultural connotations, revealing the hopes projected by the individual and society, as well as the limits.\
Other works point to the constructed limits and borders of space. For instance, Vanessa Alessi\'92s 
\f1\i W- HOLE 
\f0\i0 (2014\'96ongoing), demarcates the site of the exhibition with a transparent flag fixed atop the roof of the institution\'97presenting the attempt to delineate space while revoking personal and spatial identities.\
While the exhibition is not presented chronologically, it instead promotes these objects in their autonomy and reflects, in part, upon the brief journey of three curatorial residents at the Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo through Italy.\

\f1\i Passo Dopo Passo 
\f0\i0 is curated by Tenzing Barshee, Molly Everett, and Dorota Michalska, participants in the 2016 edition of the Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo Young Curators\'92 Residency Programme, coordinated by Lorenzo Balbi.\
Pilar Corrias is pleased to present 
\f1\i Ocean
\f0\i0 , Keren Cytter\'92s fourth solo exhibition with the gallery, which brings together three recent videos: 
\f1\i Game 
\f0\i0 (2015), 
\f1\i Metamorphosis 
\f0\i0 (2015), 
\f1\i Ocean 
\f0\i0 (2014), and a new series of drawings.\
Cytter\'92s films, video installations, and drawings depict social realities through experimental modes of storytelling. Her work explores the boundaries between reality and fiction, indefinite peripheries from which she derives new modes of editing.\
The artist creates intensified scenes drawn from soap operas and American blockbuster movies in which the overwhelmingly artificial nature of the situations portrayed is echoed by the very means of their production. Focusing less on the atmosphere and more on the storytelling she gives her plots unexpected endings. The result is a microcosmic display of emotions where desire is mixed with nostalgia and the line between the comic and tragic is blurred.\

\f1\i Game 
\f0\i0 (2015), 
\f1\i Metamorphosis 
\f0\i0 (2015), 
\f1\i Ocean 
\f0\i0 (2014), are all characterised by a fractured, non-linear narrative, which is simultaneously confusing and familiar. The dialogues between her characters\'97often a cast of non-professional actors\'97 are manipulated to function as form. Utilising techniques like diegetic time-space, subtitling, close-ups, and circular loops, Cytter breaks narrative convention and produces in the viewer a sense of displacement. The repetition in her works enacts different times that are simultaneously the same, yet different, episodes that never seem to reach an ending.\
The exhibition\'92s architecture mirrors the way Cytter edits her work and distorts the viewer\'92s perception. Walls of different heights and dimensions, which layer and break down the physical space, force us to look at the artworks with a different mind-set, dismantling, once again, the supposed conventions of viewing.\
Cytter\'92s new series of drawings, which are filtered through different styles and themes sourced from her environment, retain the characteristics of her oeuvre. As with her films, she depicts familiar objects, which are dissected and distorted, while enhancing an awareness of the process. The drawings have been arranged to converse with the gallery\'92s transformed space and initiate a dialogue which challenges how artwork is perceived.\
JOAN is pleased to present Clarissa Tossin: 
\f1\i Encontro das \'c1guas (Meeting of Waters)
\f0\i0  , a delicate and ambitious large-scale installation. Combining the basket weaving patterns of the indigenous Baniwa people, native to the Brazilian Amazon, with satellite images depicting the 900-miles (1,448 kilometers) of the Amazon River from the Manaus Basin (or Port of Manaus) in Brazil to its equatorial drainage point in the Atlantic Ocean, Tossin will exhibit an enormous tapestry whose cuts and weaves evoke the divide between two systems of representation\'96cultural and ideological\'97that exist in Manaus itself.\
Located within the Amazon rainforest in the Northern region of Brazil, Manaus, the capital city of Amazonas, is situated at the confluence of the Rio Negro (Black River) and the Rio Solim\'f5es. The two rivers connect with the Amazon River at the Port of Manaus, where for 3.7 miles (6 kilometers), their nearly black and beige colored waters flow parallel to each other without joining, until the two rivers stream into the Atlantic Ocean.\
For her exhibition at JOAN, Tossin weaves the cut strips of the tapestry in opposing directions creating visual breaks in the pattern to depict the physical and political fragmentation of the river and its surroundings. This psychic movement mimics the routes of consumer goods, materials, and people in the region. At the scale of 50 feet long x 4 1/2 feet wide (15.24 meters x 1.37 meters), the piece drapes over the ceiling beams in the gallery and reveals its bilateral construction before curling downwards onto the floor and across the length of the space.\
In 1957 Federal Deputy of the Brazilian government Francisco Pereira da Silva (1818\'961985) legally amended the city of Manaus into a \'93Porto Franco\'94 or Free Trade Port, an area where goods and products from the Amazon could be stored. In 1960 the port was designated a Free Trade Zone (ZFM \'96 Zona Franca de Manaus) and by 1967 its surrounding areas were formally extended to 6,200 square miles (16,057 kilometers). This mass deregulation lured foreign business interests with tax incentives, reduced and nearly obliterated laws protecting the deforestation of the Amazon rainforest, and offered an enormity of landmass to commercial, industrial, and agricultural industries.\
Currently, Manaus is the headquarters of various consumer production plants, including Apple, Sony, LG, Panasonic, Coca-Cola, Pepsi-Cola, Honda Motorcycles, Harley-Davidson, and Yamaha Motorcycles, among others. Under the ZFM, the Port of Manaus, with its direct access to the open Atlantic Ocean, is the lifeline of these foreign corporations and a detriment to the Amazon rainforest. The consequences of massive international exchange on the natural and vulnerable corridor of the Amazon River contributes to the deterioration of the rainforest, and severely impacts the habitats of indigenous cultures in the region.\
Using terra cotta, the traditional material used by the Baniwa people to make pots, urns, food containers, and other earthenware, Tossin merges these spaces of contradictory and contentious terrain with objects cast from a selection of mass produced products in the region. In contrast to the fragmentation of the tapestry, the terra cotta melds a fundamental material of an ancient Amazonian cultural history with replicas of consumer objects, making visible the production and circulation of consumer goods while stripping them of their intended function.\
Clarissa Tossin earned her BFA in 2000 from Funda\'e7\'e3o Armando \'c1lvares Penteado in S\'e3o Paulo, Brazil, and her MFA in 2009 from California Institute of the Arts, Los Angeles. She was awarded a Residency Fellowship at Funda\'e7\'e3o Joaquim Nabuco in Recife, Brazil, (2015), and an Emerging Artist Fellowship from the California Community Foundation,\
(2014). She participated in Artpace, an international artist-in-residence program in San Antonio, Texas, where she developed and exhibited the multimedia installation 
\f1\i Bras\'edlia, Cars, Pools and Other Modernities
\f0\i0  , (2013), which was later included in 
\f1\i Made in L.A. 2014
\f0\i0 , (2014), at the Hammer Museum, Los Angeles. Some of her solo exhibitions include the Museum of Latin American Art, Long Beach, (2015); Samuel Freeman Gallery, Los Angeles, (2015); Galeria Luisa Strina, S\'e3o Paulo, (2014); Blaffer Art Museum, University of Houston, (2013); and Sicardi Gallery, Houston, (2013). She has participated in group exhibitions including, 
\f1\i Trans-Americas: A sign, A situation, A concept
\f0\i0 , Museum London, Ontario, (2016); 
\f1\i United States of Latin America
\f0\i0  , Museum of Contemporary Art, Detroit, (2015); 
\f1\i Unsettled Landscapes
\f0\i0  , SITE Santa Fe, New Mexico, (2014); 
\f1\i Bringing the World into the World
\f0\i0  , Queens Museum, New York, (2014); and 
\f1\i When Attitudes Became Form Become Attitudes
\f0\i0  , CCA Wattis Institute, San Francisco, (2012); among others.\
\'93It\'92s dawn and it\'92s cold outside. The sound from a tower blends with waves and wind and seeps into the kitchen. Barely awake and naked, I pick up a fruit that is drooping into itself, ripples cascading and a hover of small flies. My only chair, a chair for smoking, a chair for looking and a chair for fruit, droops similarly but without the same charisma. Out the window there is a plane of flat sand and wellplaced Poverty Grass, which is the foreground to an endlessly receding and foggy ocean. The dividing line is a cliff edge that cuts through space sharper than my old, sharpened to a sliver, carving knife that is sitting on my Cedar Swamp Kauri cutting board. The grass functions as a Gargoyle, an erudite ornamentation, attempting to hold together a crumbling amalgamation of mass.\
I remember my dream of it all falling off and becoming part of the scree, where timber frames and flashing found new arrangements, starting out with trickling sand through the ceiling.\'94\
We looked at each other for what seemed like a long time, and then he said: \'93We might as well try.\'94 Over the years, we had grown a little wary of one another, and by this point it was getting almost monotonous. Irony, impatience, and autocritique, all the things which had set us apart, were beginning to wear off. Maybe there was just too much to say, or rather to think about.\
Workshop\'92s debut album was playing in the background. Open Ocean Jam, Navajo Blanket, Adolescence. \'93It\'92s maybe not the music that makes it work here for me that much, but the brilliant approach of thinking people towards being a pop group\'94, writes Francia Gimble Masters, a fictional spokesperson for the band, on the backcover. A band as a band, a group as a group, and their vicissitudes.\

\f1\i \'93I\'92m some songs\'94 
\f0\i0 was the title of the last record by British band The Shadow Ring. Six years later they published an anthology and called it 
\f1\i \'93Life Review (1993-2003)\'94
\f0\i0 . In 
\f1\i \'93Aus Lauter Haut\'94
\f0\i0 , the 2001 film by Cologne-based Filmgruppe West, a self-styled Dutch radio journalist asks the members if it is at all possible for other people to relate to the group and gets confused mumbling for an answer. Hobbypop museum from D\'fcsseldorf couldn\'92t care less: \'93thus pass our days, whilst one thing adds to another\'94. At New Theater, in Berlin, scripts, directions, and decors can only exist as a collective and collaborative effort, and the audience plays no small part.\
\'93Collaboration and collectivity may be words from the last century\'94, she said to her later that night. I have no more sense of what we might do to get on in this world than I had when I entered the group some years ago. I am still adjusting. We might linger on for years.\
\'93I Want You\'94.\
A few days later, the clouds parted \'96 but still no light. Try to imagine all futures redacted into a single point on horizon, stretching past fluorescent canopies and the play of mountains cresting into smooth space. A vision strung together by pink tape and different gradients of wood laminate.\
\'93I Want You, I Want You\'94.\
It's flatter here in the forest. Aporetic and pukey. The twitching of six-legged creatures performing their morning ablutions, flowers poking out of the topsoil like straws. All part of a highly organized vascular system of fiber-optic cables whose sole purpose is to inhale the sun.\
\'93And Outcasts Always Mourn\'94.\uc0\u8232 No boundaries. I'll eat anything, really.\
The work 
\f1\i Dodici forme 
\f0\i0 from 10th of June 1967 (1971), is a set of twelve lithographies on a paper with the isolated outlines of occupied territories in the period 1967-1071- forms taken from the pages of the Turin newspaper La Stampa\
Territori occupati and Dodici forme testify to Boetti\'92s growing interest in geography, both as a form of organization and abstraction as well as source of real political conflict and cultural difference\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Peter Fend
\f0\b0 \
In the tradition of Constructivisme and Earth Art, Peter Fend propose a territory redistribution made only for cultural, political and historical reasons but essentially conceived with physical and ecological purposes. Around oceanic basins or hydrological basins is recognized the valorisation and preservation of natural ressources.\
The 5 flags shown at Documenta \'9292 representing Germany, Europe, Asia, America and Southern Ocean are based on this concept.\
Queer Thoughts presents 
\f1\i Rainbow
\f0\i0 , a group exhibition organized across three different locations in Nicaragua: at an apartment building in San Juan del Sur, a surf town on the Pacific Ocean; at a house in La Virgen, on the shore of Lake Nicaragua; and at a forest preserve waterfall in San Jose de los Remates, an agricultural village in the mountains of the department of Boaco. This is the first exhibition organized by Queer Thoughts in the country.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 Rainbow 
\f0\i0 takes its setting in the current political landscape of the country, whose government has recently begun preliminary digging for a new trans-oceanic canal that will rival the Panama Canal. Financed by a Chinese private interest group, the new canal will be significantly longer and wider than that of Panama, engendering a new era of Chinese monitored global trade that will utilize new mega-ships and circumvent the US supervised canal in Panama. In addition to bisecting the country and the Central-American ecological corridor, the waterway will destroy forests and displace populations, bringing heavy ship traffic into Lake Nicaragua (the largest lake and source of freshwater in Central America). The Nicaraguan government has girded public discussions about the project, but claims the canal will bring newfound prosperity to the impoverished nation.\
Long beholden to foreign interests, many Nicaraguans hope the new canal will generate long standing financial independence. Queer Thoughts presents an exhibition of the work of sixteen international artists as a proposal for an alternative means of exploiting personal resources (emotional, physical). The canal will likely be built. Hundreds of kilometers away from the site of the construction, at the waterfall in San Jose de los Remates, wild ginger grows verdant and leafy in the moist rocks, while water makes its way down to the town.\
Representation and Parts\uc0\u8232 \'93Both these pieces (Instant Ocean & WINE) are essentially representational sculptures. One pretends to be wine, the other pretends to be the ocean. Both are about as close as I can come to the real thing.\
WINE, for example, is 12% alcohol. It has \'93legs.\'94 It dries out your cheeks. At some taxonomic level it is wine. But it doesn\'92t come from grapes. It has no terroir. Poetically one could say that it is wine without a \'93soul,\'94 and I think you could say the same thing about \'93Instant Ocean,\'94 which \'96 squinting \'96 describes the ocean as just a large quantity of seawater.\
But the show still aspires to a certain kind of sublime. You enter the \'93ocean.\'94 It surrounds you and you dissolve into it. At the same time you take \'93WINE\'94 into yourself and it dissolves in to you. The show is a solution, the sum of it\'92s parts, included among which is the viewer.\'94 \'96 Isaac Resnikoff\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Instant Ocean:
\f0\b0 \
330lbs \'93Instant Ocean\'94 brand sea salt mix .5ml Dimethyl Sul[ide\uc0\u8232 1,100 gallons water\u8232 20 reconditioned\
55 gallon plastic drums\

\f2\b WINE:
\f0\b0 \
7.5 gallons distilled water\uc0\u8232 8 bottles Everclear\u8232 1200ml Food Grade Vegetable Glycerine 317ml Arti[icial Red Wine Flavor\u8232 58ml Arti[icial Cabernet Flavor\u8232 168g Tannic Acid\u8232 72g Potassium Chloride\u8232 58g Malic Acid\u8232 192ml Lactic Acid\u8232 48g Sugar\u8232 144ml Red Dye\u8232 2g Clouding Agent\u8232 48 \'93Antique Green\'94 Wine Bottles\u8232 200 wine glasses\u8232 3 caterers, [\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 Ordering Nature 
\f0\i0 will present works that explore the relationship between human beings and the natural world. Each artist begins with organic material, which is then transformed by a pre- determined restraint or formal structure. Often, the works are presented in grids, rows, or pairs to highlight slight differences.\
Bjorn Braun\'92s work is produced by recycling materials so that nothing is wasted, only re- purposed and transformed. Braun has raised a pair of zebra finches that he relies on to make his sculptures \'96 he provides them with colorful, found materials such as silver tinsel, brightly colored cord, and aluminum foil, which they incorporate into nests that become sculptures.\
The cyclical nature of Braun\'92s work is echoed in Kate Newby's glass rock sculptures. Newby is interested in subtle interventions that often return natural materials to their origins. Her glass rocks are a prime example of this as sand is both produced by the erosion of rocks, and is also the substance used to create glass. These works speak to ideas of geological time, much like the work of Thiago Rocha Pitta. In 
\f1\i Ocean/Atlas Polyptych (2)
\f0\i0 , Rocha Pitta presents a grid of twelve film stills of a capsized boat afloat in the ocean as a way to chart the passing of time. Presented in a serial fashion and turned upside down, the photographs of the ocean become near abstractions - studies in color and form, differentiated only by the cresting waves.\
Helen Mirra\'92s work, 
\f1\i Waulked Triangle
\f0\i0 , is comprised of wool from two different black sheep that has been woven on a triangle loom to highlight the slight difference between the two. A single strand in the center of the work is dyed with pigment derived from a mushroom. Ryan Mrozowski similarly draws upon natural materials to serve as a framework to explore ideas of repetition and difference. He will present a new floral diptych based on stereoscopic vision. The repeating petals serve as a formal structure that allow the eye to drift back and forth, underlining the way in which a painting is read.\
Spiros Hadjidjanos also uses fauna as a formal structure with which to explore new technologies. His 3D Alumide prints are generated from Blossfeldt photographs of plants taken in the 1920s. He scans the photographs and ascribes depth based on the black and white shading, which is then rendered in aluminum-nylon composite and results in a kind of 3D bar graph of data.\
Pier Paolo Calzolari likewise fuses the technological with the organic in 
\f1\i Untitled (Occhio di Dio)
\f0\i0 . As in all of his work, natural elements, in this case tobacco leaves, serve as the framework for ephemeral states and man-made technologies to combine. Framed by the leaves, a candle slowly burns in front of the glow of a small, blue neon light. In the 1890s August Strindberg also attempted\
to capture ephemeral states of light by laying out photographic plates on his windowsill at night in an effort to document starlight. Despite their celestial appearance, the 
\f1\i Celestrographs 
\f0\i0 only captured a chemical reaction of dust and debris that had accumulated on the plates.\
Dmitri Hertz\'92s sculptures possess a similar sense of facsimile. His wall-mounted sculptures begin as epoxy resin casts of rocks into which organic materials such as grass and strawberries are gently pressed. The resulting shells suggest synthetic fossils and hang on the wall to expose the artifice of their hollow forms.\
Waste in the city is like an ocean, a perpetual tide of narratives and references that overlap and bleed into one another. Things that are swept into corners and guided under soles. Things that find themselves in collections, of an amateur, informal variety, such as the undiscerning landfill, or through more discriminating eyes, to be taken home for their sheen or how they lay against one another. There are things that give, things that take. Things the economy forgot, or things that peculiarize time. It\'92s always high tide in New York City.\
2\
Yuji Agematsu does not remember. He does not want to. Since 1980, he has moved in and out of streets, like a dance, collecting things. Some refer to it as trash. Maybe they are gifts. Or orphans. Or something akin to a shadow, waiting to be whole. His movement across the city is without structure; he walks where he pleases and does not want to consider where he belongs, where he came from, or his own identity in the process. A form of liberation through aimless walking, after the work day, when composition ends and improvisation begins. Through chance, he encounters pieces of plastic and coils of hair, chunks of rock salt and brittle bird bones, newspaper m\'e2ch\'e9d through rain and dirt. They are taken, and kept, as found. The tenuousness of these things is not a concern. Impermanence is almost desirable, a recognition that what falls into hands, artistic or otherwise, eventually disappears.\
3\
To collect is to believe in mystery. To subscribe to the idea that meaning stubbornly resides in things even after its apparent use value expires into waste.
\f1\i The moss is talking again 
\f0\i0 \'93They are looking at me always,\'94 he says. \'93I am just a slave to the duty, passion, and convention of them. I will have to take care of them. If I do well it guarantees my slave\'92s freedom.\'94\
4\
By the time you are 58 years old you will have devoted nearly 1770 hours of your life to brushing your teeth.\
5\
Each day he creates a work in a cellophane sleeve slipped off a packet of cigarettes. Items are dropped inside the pouch, the composition defined without his influence. Their \'93completion\'94 is determined intuitively, with these feral materials continuing to change shape, shift chemical states and crumble at the edges. Nothing stays the same, but why should it? Expectations for stasis are always met with disappointment. His is a habit that supports an addiction, and an addiction that structures a habit\'97the number of sleeves is determined by the amount of cigarettes he decides to smoke that day (that week, that month), while the search for the bodega to retrieve more cigarettes, or the seven minutes outside to smoke, places him in the hands of more material.\
6\
Findings are pinned to tables and walls, forming intricate patterns that reference his experimental music training. Compositions are improvised, and scattered between is an uneven procession of cigarette butts and chewing gum, perhaps two of the most common currencies in trash. Things that change dramatically, rendered unrecognizable by time and rot, rest alongside materials that persist, such as strips of tape and foil whose man-made resilience underline the contradiction in these arrangements. Although it is a collection that rejects nostalgia\'97a belly in constant digest\'97the emotional aura of the materials lingers. The affixed objects bob up and down in height but nothing is privileged over the other in their treatment. He does not seek out anything specific and there is no discovery more special than the previous. \'93I notice myself as a human being when I happen to meet them,\'94 he says.\
7\
These compositions are not telling us secrets we do not already know, and there are no lessons to be learned. The dust settles. He makes it his business to watch, to observe, to create time capsules that make no allusions for forever. The collection wilts\'97it is added to but never grows. It falls apart, pools and evaporates, and is consumed by the living, creatures who thrive on decay. Finding things breeds fatigue, as is want for things that are never met. Wage increases that never come, laundry that needs to be washed, a box of cigarettes that need to be replenished.\
8\uc0\u8232 What responsibility does he carry for this infinite waste? The vast ocean, a tangible void, gathers\
things and binds us together. \'93Sides and bottom, of which the jug consists and by which it stands, are not really what does the holding. But if the holding is done by the jug\'92s void, then the potter who forms sides and bottom on his wheel does not, strictly speaking, make the jug. He only shapes the clay. No\'97he shapes the void. For it, in it, and out of it, he forms the clay into the form. From start to finish the potter takes hold of the impalpable void and brings it forth as the container in the shape of a containing vessel. The vessel\'92s thingness does not lie at all in the material of which it consists, but in the void that holds.\'94\
9\uc0\u8232 He grows tired but he has to take care of them. He does his best.\
Since the 1970s, Los Angeles-based artist Raymond Pettibon has been metabolizing America - its history, literature, sports, religion, politics, and sexuality - in a barrage of drawings and paintings in a style born of comic books and the \'93do-it-yourself\'94 aesthetic of Southern California punk rock album-covers, concert flyers, and fanzines. Limning a dizzying array of topics with his distinctive combinations of image and text, Pettibon has created a vocabulary of symbols that reappear consistently if enigmatically across his oeuvre. These range from baseball players, vixens, light bulbs, and railway trains, to the cartoon character Gumby and infamous murderer Charles Manson: pet themes repeated and reworked in a classically American combination of abundance and monotony. But the most poetic and revealing of Pettibon\'92s symbols may be the surfer, the solitary longboarder challenging a massive wave. In his "surfer paintings," viewers find the lyrical heart of Pettibon\'92s work and ride along with a counter- culture existentialist hero who perhaps is the artist\'92s nearest proxy.\
Beginning April 3, 2014, Venus Over Manhattan will present the first exhibition ever organized to focus exclusively on Raymond Pettibon\'92s \'91surfer paintings.\'92 Are Your Motives Pure? Raymond Pettibon Surfers 1985-2013, brings together forty works spanning a quarter century of the artist\'92s career, on loan from important collections. Among works on view are early small-scale, monochrome India ink paintings; numerous paintings from the 1990s when the artist introduced color to his work; and a group of rare, large-scale paintings measuring up to nearly 10 feet wide - bravura works replete with the fluid dynamism of Pettibon\'92s line and the enduring potency of a favorite metaphor.\
Almost all of the paintings on view at Venus Over Manhattan depict an ocean roiling with beautiful, chaotic swells, accompanied by meandering texts, non-sequiturs, quotations, and bits of poetry in the artist\'92s handwriting. The exhibition takes its title from the earliest work on view, No Title (Are your motives), (1987), a black ink painting showing a lone surfer cutting his line across the face of a towering wall of water; above this scene floats the artist\'92s seemingly rhetorical question. Echoed by two similar compositions from the same year, this small work throws the power of Pettibon\'92s surfer theme into high relief. The remarkable energy of the ocean and the epic solitude of the man testing it are undiminished by the small dimensions of Pettibon\'92s picture plane.\
The monochrome India ink of Pettibon\'92s early surfers gave way to more vivid paintings in the 1990s, when he first introduced color through use of pencil, watercolor, gouache, pen, and acrylic paint. The exhibition includes numerous works from this period. By 2000, the surfer paintings became more complex and monumental, and the artist\'92s arcane associations and analogies are more visible, albeit more seemingly random. No title (That fact of), (2003), couples surfer and wave with\
an atomic mushroom cloud and text that restates Sir Isaac Newton\'92s Third Law of Physics. \'93For every action,\'94 Pettibon inscribes at the bottom of his frame, \'93there is an equal and opposite chain reaction in store." In other paintings, the surfer finds himself in the company of others \'96 a seabird here (No title (I have little) of 2007), fellow travelers there (No Title (I\'92ll go with) of 2003). In No Title (Outside! moondoggie was), (2013), a UFO zooms over the horizon beyond a beach where surfers gawk. But Pettibon\'92s recent monumental paintings are epics consistently devoted to the vast force of Nature herself. On the surface of a giant blue wall of water, the tiny figure of the speeding surfer invites reflection on the life of an artist, on ego and fame, naivet\'e9 and bravery, loneliness and mortality.\
Though he lives and works in the storied beach town of Venice, California, Pettibon is not a surfer. Nor can the paintings on view at Venus Over Manhattan be considered "surfer art;" they do not attempt to represent a real surfing scene. Instead, Pettibon is elevating the surfer to the top of his repertory of American icons, tracing the figure\'92s arc through the terrifying and chaotic ocean of life in a manner perhaps more evocative of Edward Hopper than The Endless Summer. Pettibon\'92s joy in the mythology of surfing is palpable in his sincere images, but fate hovers just beyond his frame, where the crash of his wave will end the surfer\'92s fleeting moment of glory. Pettibon\'92s work succeeds in suspending our disbelief.\
I am not a jungfrau. I am a young frau. My star sign is jungfrau \'96 I deflowered this space. Popped it\'92s vernissage cherry. I have grand tetons tho they\'92re actually quite small. I have never been to the Grand Tetons. I have hiked up and down Jungfrau so many times \'96 the Top of Europe \'96 I was jung (read young) not ein Junge. I had no choice \'96 it was a family affair. Tomorrow they seduce me.\
They tell me I\'92m most successful working quickly without knowing what I\'92m doing. I repeat repeats so many times. I am that woman in those woods, by that mountain, near the ocean. Drawing paintings takes care of this.\
Recently Lisa has noticed the smell of strange fumes from Paul's place. She deduces from the recycling bin that Paul now has a 3-D printer. With a router attachment! Paul adds. Lisa\'92s\uc0\u8232 suspicions confirmed in a passing hallway chat. It's for work, he says. At his job, they have one long table that circles and swerves through the whole space, making alcoves, and little covered meeting places. Their clients are generally impressed. Lisa works from home and has a dog. Neither she nor her dog are very keen on these new acrid scents. In fact, Lisa often gets headaches. She burns incense at home and she thinks Paul does too. It\'92s an effective way to hide the smell of burnt chemicals, and luckily, they both love the scent of nag champa.\
Between them is a woman who is often visited by her mother. When she visits, they tend to talk very loudly together in the hallway in an unfamiliar language. She normally doesn\'92t wear\uc0\u8232 any sort of headscarf, so when she does Paul can\'92t tell if it\'92s for fashion or not. He doesn\'92t care, he just doesn\'92t like how they talk in the hallway. It's rude. He feels entitled to play his music louder when he pleases - his speakers being conveniently inlaid into the wall they share. She has never complained about the music, but Paul assumes that she is talking about him to her mother. Sometimes he thinks her eyes control the electricity. Sometimes Lisa finds batteries in the hallways.\
We have been waiting for you to come. The preparations have beenunderway for some time. We have grown accustomed to the blare of horns, the bustle, the idea. From across the ocean your clear shadow stretches over our city, so far from god. And now your arrival is immanent.\
Still I wonder how we will greet you. And what exactly it is that you will see. All the old idols have been undug. We have driven back time 
\f1\i \'93before alphabets and numbers, the altar and the law.\'94i 
\f0\i0 The hum of work fillseverything, along with our anticipation.\
But after these years of great labor, will we find solace by your side? The paranoia, we sit with it and eat it in every grain. We carry on like this, making new idols. Even in our ungoverned hours, we are possessed by the spectre of you.\
\'96\'96Afruz Amighi\
Afruz Amighi received her MFA from New York University in 2007. Her work has been\
presented internationally at the V&A Museum, London; the 55th International Venice\
Biennale; the Museum of Arts and Design, New York; The National Museum, Riyadh, Saudi\
Arabia; The Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach; The Nasher Museum of Art at Duke\
University, Durham; The National Museum, Damascus; Beiteddine Palace, Lebanon; Sharjah\
Museum of Islamic Civilization, UAE; Sakip Sabanci Museum, Istanbul; La Villa des\
Arts, Casablanca, Morocco; and Museum of Fine Art, Houston. Her work is included in the\
permanent collections of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the V&A London;\
MFA Houston; Bristol Museum, UK; and the Devi Art Foundation, New Delhi. The artist\
was born in Tehran and lives and works in Brooklyn.\
Ch.1\uc0\u8232 A Public Fiction\
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs40 \cf0 The Room\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Matthew Brannon\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 The Room\
After the press conference in\uc0\u8232 the hotel conference room with the glass wall and the struggling air conditioner. Where she said something she really shouldn\'92t have. The podium with the various microphones had been dismantled. Conference chairs remained\u8232 in disarray and the floor was littered with hotel stationery bearing a logo that hadn\'92t changed since the 40s. The one with the palms and the birds.\u8232 You could still smell nicotine gum in the air.\
There\'92s a way to say every- thing. There\'92s a way to keep\uc0\u8232 them calm. There\'92s a way that says I understand your fear and frustration, and yet. And yet knowing what she knew and doing what she did he asked the one question that no one was supposed to ask. And before you knew\
it she answered with words that have never crossed her lips.\uc0\u8232 And when she finally stopped talk- ing all you could hear was the breaking of pencils and the clicking of pens.\
It didn\'92t matter, not really. And this film of our lives that takes some two hours to watch and covers some twenty very public years is over. It was a set-\
1\
up anyway. They were leaving by helicopter from the roof before she even mounted the podium.\uc0\u8232 In the air they were wearing headphones and sunglasses\
and looking down at the building tops. At the abstracted city seen from above. Heading towards the coast. You can\'92t talk over the racket of the propellers\
but I know they heard every one of those words.\
And so it\'92s an ending.\uc0\u8232 She doesn\'92t even feel a thing. That thing no one could foresee, that the administration would throw its hands in the air. You\'92re right we tried. Now go home. There\'92s no going back. There never was. People would lose fingers, and books would be thrown in the ocean, and pets would get their names taken away. Welcome to not getting or being or doing what you want.\
Part of my mind was attentive as everyone was frantically writing. But instead I made a drawing. Immediately I knew I was someone else and that drawing\
was the first thing I had done as this new person. It wasn\'92t very good. But I think of it from time to time.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Nicelle Beauchene Gallery is pleased to announce 
\f1\i\b0 The Wave, 
\f2\i0\b the gallery\'92s third solo show of works by Sarah Crowner. 
\f1\i\b0 The Wave 
\f2\i0\b presents an arrangement of sewn paintings surrounding an elevated, glazed terra cotta tile floor.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b0\fs26 \cf0 The Wave 
\f0\i0 invites viewers into an installation whose function is expressed equally as stage-like viewing platform and distinct painterly composition, extending the exhibition across visual and tactile forms. Blue-green tiles, handmade with the artist in Guadalajara, Mexico, are organized into an amplified chevron pattern set atop a raised platform within the space of the gallery. Each tile, fired and glazed individually, conveys inconsistencies and irregularities in surface, color, and edge\'97furthering the artist\'92s engagement with the handmade. The viewer stands on the tiles in order to observe the paintings \'96 hot red on raw canvas \'96 their curvy wave forms1 torqued upwards. Right angles on the floor are set in variance with the orange-red waves on the walls, and an environment2 is created.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs32 \cf0 Throughout, the exhibition exposes the step-by-step process of constructing an architectural space via parallel arrangements of pattern. Suffused with specific allusions spanning fine and applied arts, such as Alexander Girard\'92s interior design schemes and textile patterns from the Wiener Werkstatte, the works eschew compositional purity for a more fluid relation between procedures and media. In the artist\'92s work, an analogy is established and elaborated between the logics of painting and tiling. Either by thread or by grout, structures are organized and joined together in relation to adjacent units. Across Crowner\'92s meticulously constructed mise-en-sc\'e8ne, repetition shuttles between the abstract and concrete: at once dispersing the figurative across motif and materializing the act of painting as the fabrication of a room- within-a-room.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Sarah Crowner lives and works in New York City. She earned her BA from the University of California, Santa Cruz, and her MFA from Hunter College, City University of New York, in 2002. She also attended \'c9cole Nationale Sup\'e9rieure des Beaux Arts, in Paris, France. Crowner\'92s work has been featured extensively in group and solo exhibitions in institutions including: The Walker Art Center; Museum of Modern Art, New York; The Whitney Museum of American Art; Kunstverein, Amsterdam; WIELS Contemporary Art Centre, Brussels; and The Institute of Contemporary Arts, London, among numerous other public and private venues internationally.\
The American artist Mary Heilmann is recognised as a leading figure in contemporary abstract painting. While her work remained relatively unknown to the wider art audience for a long time, it gained the respect and admiration of her fellow artists. Born in 1940 in San Francisco, Heilmann established her position as a painter after moving to New York in 1968. Going against the dominant trends within art at that time, she opted for this traditional medium in order to develop her own pictorial language, creating abstract paintings that not only communicate personal experiences but also evoke visual pleasure.\
Heilmann is known for her inventive explorations of fundamental painterly concerns, her expressive handling of paint and distinctive use of colour and form. While her art contains elements of abstraction and Colour Field painting, and at times recalls Hard-edge painting or Minimalism, it also incorporates pop-cultural motifs such as surfing and the ocean, or driving and the open road. Having been interested in ceramics since her student days, Heilmann has also practised forms of applied art and referred to craft traditions throughout her career.\
This exhibition (first solo show by Nicolas Ceccaldi in Switzerland) introduces new techniques and themes including, "but not limited to": rephotography, abstraction, gicl\'e9e printing on stretched canvas, the digital camera as a rudimentary receiving instrument for screen-captures, tumblrs, doing everything on "a pirated copy of photoshop", the freeware feeling of alienation and anguish, grief, bathroom spleen, the green crosses of pharmacies, William Bouguereau, etc. This lexical field is developed through juxtapositions, despite the fact that hybridization and mixing everything together contributes to current politics of cultural impoverishment. For this reason, and on this special occasion the windows of the gallery have been partially BLACKENED in order to reduce the negative impact that the exterior might have on the attention the artworks yearn for.\
Galerie Francesca Pia is pleased to announce its fourth solo exhibition with Mai-Thu Perret entitled The Prairie.\
This exhibition features new ceramic works as well as a stuffed fabric whale and a sculpture realized in collaboration with Olivier Mosset. The new works are mainly inspired by Herman Melville\'92s classic novel Moby Dick, and its evocation of the underwater world. Mai-Thu Perret plays with the idea of the formless and amorphous\'96the ceramic islands in the main exhibition space can be understood as coral reefs or underwater landscapes, but also as examples of primal and regressive sculpture. In the same room, the sperm whale executed in blank canvas shares this toy like quality.\
These works are set in contrast to a second room of starkly minimal ceramic pieces featuring simple line compositions, like a hazy reminiscence of Mondrian\'92s early abstract works also inspired by the sea, the Pier and Ocean paintings. The geometric genealogy continues with the inclusion of a collaborative sculpture with Swiss artist Olivier Mosset, who is famous for his reductive approach to painting. A blue and orange lacquered aluminium box, Judd\'92s Reject is a reconstruction from memory of a failed Donald Judd artwork the two artists saw in Marfa, Texas. In the context of the show, it functions like a swimming pool, but it also serves to highlight a complex relationship to the notion of authorship.\
This is a show where contrast and contradiction play a central part. Opposites\'96such as aluminium sheeting and soft fabric, or glistening, fragile sandcastles and hard geometric lines\'96meet and are not resolved.\
Andrew Kreps Gallery is pleased to present a single-work installation by Ricci Albenda.\
Untitled is a simple experiment. Though similar in many ways to some of his Trompe l'oeil installations of the past, this installation does not attempt to fool the eye but rather relies on the viewer's suspension of disbelief. Like the ocean meeting the sky, the floor extends up the wall as a flat plane of color, while the ceiling descends to meet it at an infinite distance on the horizon. This horizon line is tilted slightly, loosening itself from the architecture to which it is attached, and destabilizing the viewer's relationship with the absolute level horizon with which we are all familiar. This tilt also allows the work to accommodate the majority of adult heights and their associated eye- levels. Thus, if everyone in the gallery were to migrate to a place for which the horizon coincided with their own eye-level, a tilted plane of heads would be created.\
"Tyger, tyger, burning bright / In the forests of the night, / What immortal hand or eye / Could frame thy fearful symmetry?"\uc0\u8232 - William Blake, \'93The Tyger\'94\
In art and architecture symmetry designates the beauty characterized by proportion or harmony. But in mathematics, symmetry means something else. In this field, anything that preserves its form after undergoing some transformation is said to be symmetrical. The symmetrical transcends a singular point of view. So a symmetrical figure will appear the same to two observers who are in different positions. A surface of a still pond, for example, has a high degree of symmetry; it looks the same almost everywhere. There\'92s intense energy contained in symmetry. It doesn\'92t take long staring into a ganzfeld before near hallucinatory effects appear. When symmetry is broken, this energy is released and patterns form. Symmetry breaking occurs everywhere in nature : it appears in a tiger\'92s stripes, in the swell of ocean waves, in the ripples of a pond after a pebble is thrown into it. When pressure is applied lightly, stable geometrical patterns form. As pressure is intensified beyond a critical point, symmetry is shattered, and all order and harmony seems to be lost. Things spin out of control. It is from such unstable states that new unpredictable forms emerge.\
Swept over like a cow\'92s lick on a gushy groundswell of \'93fingernail sensitivity\'92, swollen sailboats,\uc0\u8232 tossed like salad,\u8232 cast out washy lines.\
But there\'92s no trusting in ocean tectonics: \'93Auf den Wellen, gibt es nichts als Wellen\'94 and who would expect less,\uc0\u8232 than a full-blown over,\u8232 on his side\
slippery and split?\
Under melting caps, the surface grew sodden and cracked, corduroy suffering, rising damp, and leaks blasting up from Leviathan\'92s blow-hole,\uc0\u8232 soaking all through to the skin,\u8232 at least, up to the neck.\
An incessant drip dripping from overflowing hemispheres, and kitchen sink dramas. So send out shoals of seapunks,\uc0\u8232 roaming from pirate coast to pirate coast,\u8232 desperately seeking the little Dutch boy\
to put his finger in the dyke.\
When the opening had run dry,\uc0\u8232 plastic cups collected by currents in Great Pacific gyres, its survivors huddled along shorelines, crying over spilt milk and waving off\u8232 the maiden voyage for Schlaraffenland,\u8232 singing \'93meer und meer-Busen,\'94\u8232 plunging under cardboard quavers,\u8232 flotsam and jetsam,\u8232 bobbing up and down,\u8232 suspended in jars\u8232 like curios.\
Mr. C?\uc0\u8232 Have you seen Mr. C? What is he doing? What are her skills? He can do this, or she can do that.\
Mr. C is messy. He likes to rearrange things and build objects. To understand them, she sometimes needs to attach them one to another with a string.\
Mr. C has the faculty to split herself in two, simultaneously revealing his insides and her own flesh. Each part stares at\'96 and is the reflection of\'96 the other. They are always a bit different; they discover unexpected things.\
Mr. C walks funny. She has no shadow. He can read minds, and turn dreams into reality.\
Mr. C speaks a thousand languages, but understands none of them. She lives in a different place everyday. Always in motion; from city to forest. Mr. C has a house built on stilts, surrounded by clouds.\
Mr. C travels through time and space and has a removable face. He flies at high speed, high in the sky, and dives deep in the ocean, always looking for something.\
Here is a blank page on the table, the pale light of a laptop screen. Did we ever think we\'92d ever see it again when we were so far from our forgotten homes? We spoke of our life as if it was a dead thing. The certainty to never come back was like an endless ocean that kept us separate. There were too many shells, too many corpses in dark puddles, too many wooden crosses. Sooner or later our time would come, too. And yet it\'92s over; life will go on and the atrocious memories that still torment us will appease themselves. We\'92ll forget and perhaps there will come a time in the future when, confounding memories of WAR with those of our youth, we\'92ll sight with regret.\
This exhibition (first solo show by Nicholas Ceccaldi in Switzerland) introduces new techniques and themes including, \'93but not limited to\'94 abstraction, plein-air painting, printed canvas, William Bouguereau, razor blades, bathroom spleen, pharmacies, frozen calm, the digital camera as a rudimentary receiving instrument of screen-capture, my tumblr, doing everything on \'93a pirated copy of photoshop\'94, a shared feeling of alienation, etc. This lexical field is elaborated through the use of juxtapositions despite the fact that cross-pollination and mixing everything together contributes to the politics of cultural impoverishment. For this reason, and on this special occasion, the windows of the gallery have been partially BLACKENED in order to reduce the negative impact that the neighbouring outdoors (hell) might have on the attention that the artworks exhibited yearn for.\
Conceived as part of an on-going work concerned with the beginnings of moving image tech- nology and its relationship to astronomy, Venus Mirrors (05/06/2012, Hawaii & Tahiti (Inverted)) presents the 2012 transit of Venus across the sun as it will be observed in June this year from two historically significant observational sites in the Pacific Ocean. The small differences in the position of the transit - as observed when the viewer overlays the reflection of one mirror onto the other - were the basis for huge leaps forward in the understanding of the dimensions of our solar system.\
For six hours on the 5th and 6th of June (depending on your location on earth) it will be pos- sible to observe a small black disc passing across the face of the sun. The transit of Venus, an extremely rare astronomical event - occuring in pairs eight years apart at intervals of over 100 years - originally predicted by Johannes Kepler and observed and recorded for the first time by the young English astronomer Jeremiah Horrocks in 1636 - was once the key to unlocking the architecture of the solar system. In what were the first internationally coordinated scientific en- deavours, huge efforts were made in the 18th and 19th centuries to precisely observe and record the duration and position of the transit from geographically remote locations across the globe. These observations, which included the use of nascent cinematographic techniques, allowed for the first relatively accurate calculations to be made of the so-called astronomical unit \'96 the mean earth-sun distance.\
The Bus Wrap Book\
The graphicals on travel coaches, so called Bus Wraps, are done by anonymous designers and mainly show a variety of brushstrokes, dots, strokes, wipe-effects. These icons, much apart from usual high profile graphic design, form their very own symbolic worlds containing heraldics, logos, and fonts. In fact many of the patterns that often imitate mud splatters on the cars surface can be interpreted as abstracted clich\'e9s from Pop Art, Op Art, Hardege, cubistic Abstraction to Action Painting.\
Around 600 photographs of those signets, patterns and designed bus elements have already been photographed in London, Paris, Vienna and Berlin over the last three years to form the core of both, an exhibition and a printed matter, The Bus Wrap Book. With the printed matter not only be launched in an exhibition context, but being an integrated part and and at the same time another form of artistic representation and production.\
The existing photographs of the bus-graphicals will be assembled and rearranged in a layout of an offset-printed publication. A certain amount of the black and white printed offset-sheets will be taken away from the book produc- tion context. These will be screen printed in full format and then arranged in the exhibition as a posters along with colored photoprints in a presentation structure that resembles the window of a Bookshop.\
After the exhibition the screen printed posters and the color photographs will be re- integrated in the book making process. Cut into the format size of the book and bound they become integrate part of the artist book.\uc0\u8232 So the book becomes the material and the subject of the exhibition. Whereas the same time the exhibition is part of the production process of the artist book that will contain what was in the exhibition.\
At the exhibition 
\f1\i Atlantic 
\f0\i0 Jeannette Ehlers ventures on a journey on the trail of the Triangular Trade \'96 from Denmark to the coast of West-Africa to what was once the Danish West Indies. The Triangular Trade is a part of Ehlers\'92 personal history, since she \'96 as the daughter of a Danish mother and a West Indian father \'96 has her roots planted directly in the slave trade that was going on for more than 200 years. 
\f1\i Atlantic 
\f0\i0 has its starting point in places in Ghana, the West Indies and Denmark that all have a historical connection to the Danish slave trade. The exhibition unites Jeannette Ehlers\'92 two main artistic interests: the exploration of digital manipulation and an identity-seeking self-presentation. As an attempt to insinuate herself into her own history the artist herself appears in the works by means of digital manipulations of photographs and video.\
In the video 
\f1\i Three steps of story
\f0\i0 , which constitutes one of the sides of the large triangle in the center of the room, we can see Jeannette Ehlers waltz in a large mirrored hall where the colorful and rebellious Danish governor Peter von Scholten outraged the white citizenry by inviting \'93freed Negroes\'94 to a party. It was also von Scholten, who in 1848 declared the slaves on Saint Croix free. This happened on the square in front of Fort Fredrik, which forms the basis for the video 
\f1\i Speed up that day
\f0\i0 . Here the artist has filmed the fort from morning to night and added a heavily adapted sound track of Martin Luther King\'92s legendary 
\f1\i I have a dream
\f0\i0 -speech from 1963.\
In the video 
\f1\i Black Magic at the White House 
\f0\i0 we see Ehlers perform a voodoo dance at Marienborg Castle, which is strongly connected to the Triangular Trade. Marienborg was built in 1744 as a summer residence for Counter Admiral Olfert Fischer, who later sold it to the merchant Peter Windt, who had also built up a large fortune by trading in slaves and sugar and who even brought slaves with him to his home in Denmark. Several of the other merchants from the period have owned and left their mark on Marienborg, and to this day the castle still plays an important role in Denmark because of its position as the official residence of the prime minister.\
Shadows of people on walls, stairs and water surfaces can be seen in the photo series 
\f1\i Atlantic
\f0\i0 , which, among other things, contains images of Fort Prinzenstein in Ghana that was built by the Danes and used to keep the slaves imprisoned before the journey across the Atlantic Ocean. The ocean plays an important role in the Triangular Trade and therefore also at the exhibition. Visually and aurally the rotunda is filled with rough waves from the mighty Atlantic Ocean.\
The combination of shots from historically significant places and manipulated interpolations turns 
\f1\i Atlantic 
\f0\i0 into a discussion of historical empathy. To what extent is it possible to step into history, and how do we relate to the less pleasurable and repressed parts of the past? 
\f1\i Atlantic 
\f0\i0 gives no answers but uses the documentary as well as the manipulatory possibilities of photography to present a reflection on the Danish slave trade.\
The exhibition Sound Pieces by Jack Goldstein shows altogether 23 sound works. Parallel to his films, Goldstein has produced sound works since 1976, which are of central importance to his early works. As starting point, Goldstein uses mostly found footage for his record albums. A lot of the recordings were ideas Goldstein wanted to integrate into his movies or to adapt. Titles such as \'93A Faster Run,\'94 \'93The German Shepherd,\'94 \'93A Swim Against the Tide,\'94 \'93The Burning Forest,\'94 \'93The Dying Wind,\'94 \'93The Lost Ocean Liner,\'94 \'93The Tornado,\'94 \'93Three Felled Trees,\'94 and \'93Two Westling Cats\'94 correspond simply to the recorded noises.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Thomas Eggerer
\f0\b0 \
\'93Fence Romance\'94\
5 February \'96 17 April 2010\uc0\u8232 opening reception on Friday, 5 February, 7-9 pm\
Thomas Eggerer\'92s new paintings feature figures in ambivalent spaces that are both expansive and limiting. The architectural elements in these works such as a fence in \'93Fence Romance\'94 or the modernist frame in \'93Friday\'92s Child\'94 offer shelter and definition, and are nonetheless confining. A feeling of exposure and uncertainty is enhanced by the placement of the figures on slanted angles (\'93Downward\'94) and even further by the orchestration of glances: The viewers\'92 glances but also a regime of glances within the paintings themselves. The ambivalence of Eggerer\'92s spatial constructions provides a context for a time frame \'96 holding and releasing, breathing in and out, before and after.\
One painting shows an unreasonably big yacht with crew members and hanger-outs on board holding in full summer action against the ocean waves, which are, compared to the graphically represented people, not at all defined, making the yacht somehow an image of a vessel, or a container of a group more absorbed with what happens inside of themselves, than with the space itself, the immense and deep world of the ocean. In another painting the background for some standing-around student-like looking people is slightly more defined, resembling some public space, something between a subway station or the public zoo\'92s big glass window. The figures seem to care very much about what is happening in the phenomenon around them \'96 most of their gestures even point to the friendly modernist environment. A third picture has two men very near to each\
other, a third one far off in the distance. In comparison the background space is much bigger here,\uc0\u8232 more dominant, seemingly telling the bigger part of the story and one might immediately feel that\u8232 this background even points to another completely different time, to something lying in the future, looking a bit like a science-fiction illustration of a weird tunnel with no end. Since the light and texture of the space are neither as flat or abstract as in the yacht painting nor are as distinctly referential to the contemporary environment as the second image, the painting almost demands another look. It becomes quite puzzling. Suddenly there is not just one background. The light in the tunnel is from another direction than in the very abstracted space behind, behind what divides the picture elliptically, a huge bended fence. The figures are kind of leaning against the scary fence, almost like saying, here we are standing with our backs to a dark past, looking into an even scarier- looking space of an empty seeming highly organized future. But still, for that moment surprisingly, they don\'92t appear to be frightened.\
Each of the works in this exhibition demands from the viewer somehow to return to the ones seen before in order to transport the findings between them, since they give great hints of how to better read their at first well- disguised narratives. They look at first like mostly well-constructed paintings, alone for their distinction between on one side the abstractly painted color fields and on the other the play with ambivalent meanings of gestures of the different human figures. But independent of that, it is possible that for viewers, who might have had experience with it, the space of the third painting sometimes turns from a sci-fi-like time warp into an almost religiously uncanny space of a, for instance, biblical story from long, long ago. But maybe not. Anyway, going through the exhibition the way of mutual image reading, the third, the biggest painting, becomes definitely\uc0\u8232 more transparent after the study of another picture, the forth, that is painted on paper. Almost the same, or maybe even the same couple of young men as in the uncanny warp space walks down this time a declining ramp-like path, and behind we find a very textured space of dark floating colors. Maybe not one hundred percent correctly, but this work, the two downward moving figures in the space of a darkish universe, might include probably references to William Blake.\
This work on paper almost seems to create sounds of deep minor largo playing strings like in a Godard movie. This imagined \'93sound\'94 of the painting is comparable to Godard\'92s handling of classical music, both in the ambivalent gesture of cultural quotation, but as well in the quality of suspending the contemporary \'93worldly\'94 narrative with some timeless seriousness of existential effect.\
In \'93Fence Romance\'94 time seems almost like rotating from some prehistoric glimmer to the first mundane situation within historic time. The painting within the modern public space is full of the ringing and jingling of the sweet early experience of public space and of education in youth, and the painting of the yacht seems to be an international image, but there are some particular sounds in it which make it so close to what might be called the American experience. Apotheosis of \'93la situation Americain\'94. The American-ness translates exactly half by means of content, by the poses of the represented group of people, etc., and half through the mode of painting itself. The division of the painting between pure painting pleasure and evocation of narratives becomes in the yacht painting almost humorously over-exemplified. Eggerer seems to follow his path with scientific consequence. One might not recognize it at first view, since the yacht appears so much to be simply in the\
middle of the frame, but the upper half of the whole image is just color field painting only, while exactly the lower half is containing the arch-mundane luxury container of some leisure society only, but even here, so obviously, it is imagined with quite some background sounds, like the (in contemporary astronomy) so called dark flow.\
New York, NY \'96 The Drawing Center announces 
\f1\i Selections Spring 2010: Sea Marks
\f0\i0 , on view in the Drawing Room from January 15 \'96 April 5, 2010. The exhibition will be comprised of works by Agnes Barley, Jerome Marshak, and Peter Matthews, three artists selected from the Viewing Program who notate, describe, and interpret aspects of the sea. This exhibition is curated by Nina Katchadourian, Viewing Program Curator.\
Responding to the exhibition 
\f1\i Iannis Xenakis: Composer, Architect, Visionary
\f0\i0 , which will be on view simultaneously in The Drawing Center\'92s Main Gallery, 
\f1\i Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 takes a personal facet of\uc0\u8232 Xenakis\'92s life as its starting point. Beginning in the early 1950s, Xenakis and his family vacationed on the Mediterranean island of Corsica, where they camped and kayaked. His daughter M\'e2khi draws a connection between what she calls, \'93the violence and the special force\'94 of her father\'92s music and his intense contact with the Mediterranean.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 Selections Spring 2010: Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 examines the capacity of drawing to represent something as dynamic, volatile, and vast as the sea. Leonardo\'92s deluge drawings, Turner\'92s watercolors, and Vija Celmins\'92s drawings and paintings are but a few examples of how artists have contended with representing water. Just as Xenakis used drawing to configure and materialize his ideas, the artists in 
\f1\i Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 have invented personal and abstract drawing languages to translate the sea. All three artists use distinctly different interpretive strategies that yield a range of unexpected results; in fact, one may not immediately recognize the sea in any of their works. While staying within the material bounds of traditional drawing, the works expand our understanding of how drawing acts as a descriptive system and means of interpretation.\
New York, NY \'96 The Drawing Center announces 
\f1\i Selections Spring 2010: Sea Marks
\f0\i0 , on view in the Drawing Room from January 15 \'96 April 5, 2010. The exhibition will be comprised of works by Agnes Barley, Jerome Marshak, and Peter Matthews, three artists selected from the Viewing Program who notate, describe, and interpret aspects of the sea. This exhibition is curated by Nina Katchadourian, Viewing Program Curator.\
Responding to the exhibition 
\f1\i Iannis Xenakis: Composer, Architect, Visionary
\f0\i0 , which will be on view simultaneously in The Drawing Center\'92s Main Gallery, 
\f1\i Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 takes a personal facet of\uc0\u8232 Xenakis\'92s life as its starting point. Beginning in the early 1950s, Xenakis and his family vacationed on the Mediterranean island of Corsica, where they camped and kayaked. His daughter M\'e2khi draws a connection between what she calls, \'93the violence and the special force\'94 of her father\'92s music and his intense contact with the Mediterranean.\

\f1\i Selections Spring 2010: Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 examines the capacity of drawing to represent something as dynamic, volatile, and vast as the sea. Leonardo\'92s deluge drawings, Turner\'92s watercolors, and Vija Celmins\'92s drawings and paintings are but a few examples of how artists have contended with representing water. Just as Xenakis used drawing to configure and materialize his ideas, the artists in 
\f1\i Sea Marks 
\f0\i0 have invented personal and abstract drawing languages to translate the sea. All three artists use distinctly different interpretive strategies that yield a range of unexpected results; in fact, one may not immediately recognize the sea in any of their works. While staying within the material bounds of traditional drawing, the works expand our understanding of how drawing acts as a descriptive system and means of interpretation.\
Konrad Fischer Galerie Berlin is pleased to announce the opening of an exhibition of work by Jan Dibbets on Friday, May 1 2009, from 6 to 9pm.\
Besides selected works from the series "Land And Sea Horizons" (2007) we will exhibit five "Windows" from the 1980's and 1990's. As already seen in his early "PerspectiveCorrections" (1968) the later work of Dibbets is still concerned with the contradictions of our concepts of reality and their pictorial realization in photography.\
Jan Dibbets' series "Land And Sea Horizons" juxtaposes photographs of dunes and ocean, each mounted in different shapes and formats. The viewer sees simultaneously what would be in front of and what would be behind him in a real landscape. This experience is further stimulated by the fact that although the panels are pieced together in different ways, the horizon line always remains level and constant.\
Also Dibbets' "Windows" question the angle of vision from which we perceive reality through images today: a reality presumably existing in the objective sense, and another reality that we are able to create as a pure fiction in our minds. If some of Dibbets earlier works have already juxtaposed the indexical and the iconic dimensions of photography, this strategy is fully realized in the "Windows" series. Photographs of windows are isolated through a process of cut-outs and then enlarged. These images then are mounted on paper and surrounded by a monochrome field of paint. The light eminating through the windows is contrasted by the actual light that is reflected by the painted surface. Icon and Index are playing off each other and finally seem to become the flipside of the same coin.\
One day, I thought that if I became Santa Claus in the warm season, I had to feelthat I was\uc0\u8232 in some southern hemisphere country that had Christmas in the warm season.\u8232 It was spring, and I became Santa Claus in the vacant lot near the ocean, through which\u8232 the train passed. I was the Santa Claus whom you could glimpse at from thetrain\u8232 window, but could not look back and gaze at. The glimpse of me was the event that would linger in your mind, because of its momentary impression.\u8232 I thought it would be wonderful if someone from Latin America or Australia wason the train, and, catching a glimpse of me as Santa Claus, recalled Christmas at home in the warm season. I picked up the garbage in the vacant lot. This Santa Claus in the spring held the bags that were blue and filled with discarded things.\u8232 Sometimes, I think about Colombus. He tried to reach India, then he discovered America. Where can my "Christmas in the Southern Hemisphere" reach?\
Parrasch Heijnen is pleased to announce Marcia Hafif: Paintings, 2000 - 2014, the gallery\'92s first exhibition with the late artist. This exhibition comprises eleven works depicting the breadth of Hafif\'92s later painting styles including diptych 
\f1\i Fresco: Pale Paintings
\f0\i0 , 
\f1\i TGGT 
\f0\i0 (Tomatoes, Grapes and Green Tea), 
\f1\i Shade Paintings
\f0\i0 , and the 
\f1\i Pacific Ocean 
\f0\i0 near monochromes.\
Hafif\'92s temporal bodily process is in opposition to formal abstraction. Throughout her oeuvre, Hafif\'92s small, tempera-like vertical strokes and energized reductive forms are a focused meditation on color. Her process marks the duration of time through the amassing of lines that ultimately emerge into forms of continuity.\
The artist\'92s hand is visible in the slight variations of repetitive gestures on the surface of the plane. The imprint of Hafif\'92s brush pressing against the surface and its subsequent release allows the paint to remain active and intentionally inconsistent, yet still harmonious. She allows the medium and her body to take its natural course, released of any outer force.\
Central to Hafif\'92s practice is her experimentation with pigment, mixing her own paint to create visually intense colors and pairings. The seriality of the work provides regulated experimentation and contrasting juxtaposition to view the difference in tones. The Golden Mean philosophy of \'93nothing to excess\'94 influenced Hafif as a guide for balance most literally seen in her 
\f1\i TGGT 
\f0\i0 and diptych works.\
With unhurried control, Hafif painted for the love of color and the nuances that mixing just a touch of pigment can provide. Her earthen hues, derived from observation and experience, as in her 
\f1\i Pacific Ocean 
\f0\i0 series, reference the calming elemental effect of ephemeral light. Transplanted as memories infused on canvas, they are an assertion of presence.\
}